HIDE AND SEEK

BY

JAMES PATTERSON

NOVELS BY JAMES PATTERSON

Hide And Seek
Kiss the Girls
Along Came a Spider
The Midnight Club
Black Market
Virgin
See How They Run
The Thomas Berryman Number
Season of the Machete

Published by
WARNER BOOKS


A Time Warner Company
The characters and events in this book are fictitious. Any similarity to
 real persons, living or dead, is coincidental and not intended by the
 author.

 If you purchase this book without a cover you should be aware that this book
 may have been stolen property and reported as "unsold and destroyed" to the
 publisher. In such case neither the author nor the publisher has received
 any payment for this "stripped book."

 WARNER BOOKS EDITION

 Copyright (C 1996 by James Patterson. All rights reserved.

 This book was originally published in hardcover by Little, Brown and Company

 Cover design by Steve Snider Cover illustration by Gabriel Molano

 Warner Books, Inc
 1271 Avenue of the Americas
 New York, NY 10020

 Visit our web site at http://pathfinder.com/twep

 þ A Time Warner Company

 Printed in the United States of America First International Paperback
 Printing: July, 1996 First Warner Books Printing: December, 1996

 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
For Carole Anne, Isabelle Anne, and Mary Ellen:
the mothers of invention
                                     
PROLOGUE
Hide & Seek
                                     
I LAY WITHOUT moving in the low, narrow crawl space under the front porch of
 our home near West Point. My face was pressed tightly against the brutally
 cold, frozen ground littered with dry leaves and scratchy brambles. I knew
 I was going to die soon, and so was my baby girl. The words from a song,
 Crosby, Stills, and Nash- "Our house is a very, very, very fine house "-
 played in my mind.
  "Don't cry . . . oh please don't cry," I whispered into my baby's ear.
  There was no way out-no escape from here, at least not carrying the baby.
  I was smart, and I'd thought of every possible escape route. None of them
  would work.
  Phillip was going to kill us when he found our hiding place. I couldn't let
  him. I just didn't know how I could stop it. I kept my hand lightly over
  Jennie's mouth.
4   James Patterson

 "You mustn't make a sound, sweetheart. I love you. You mustn't make a
 sound."
  I could hear Phillip raging above us inside the house. Our house. He was
  rampaging from floor to floor, ransacking rooms, overturning furniture.
  Angry. Relentless. Absolutely crazy. Worse than he'd ever been. It was
  cocaine this time, but really it was life that Phillip couldn't handle very
  well.
  "Come out, come out, wherever you are, Maggie . . . come out, Maggie and
  Jennie . . . it's only Daddy. Daddy's going to find you anyway," Phillip
  screamed over and over until he was hoarse. "Come out, come out, Maggie .
  . . game's over.
  "Maggie, I command you to come out wherever the hell you're hiding, you
  disobedient little bitch."
  I lay shivering under the old sagging porch. My teeth were chattering
  again. This couldn't be happening. It was unthinkable. I gently held my
  little girl, who had wet her pants. "You mustn't cry, Jennie. Please don't
  cry. Don't cry. You're such a good little girl. I love you so much."
  Jennie nodded, and stared into my eyes. I wished that this were a
  nightmare. That it would go away. But it wasn't a bad dream. This was as
  real as my mother's fatal heart attack when I was thirteen years old and
  the only one home. This was even worse.
  I could hear my husband, my husband, stomping up and down the stairs of the
  house. He was still screaming . . . hadn't stopped screaming for over an
  hour. Pounding
                    HIDE & SEEK   5

 his fist against the walls. Captain Phillip Bradford. Math instructor at the
 Academy. Officer and gentleman. That was what everyone believed, what they
 wanted to believe, what I had believed myself.

 The hour stretched to two hours.
  Then to three hours in the pitch-black, freezing-cold crawl space-in this
  living hell.
  Mercifully, Jennie had finally fallen asleep. I held her to my chest, tried
  to keep her warm. I wanted to sleep myself, give up the fight, but I knew
  I mustn't do that. It was very early in the morning. One of Phillip's
  witching hours-maybe three A.M.? Maybe four?
  I heard the front door slam like a clap of thunder in the night. Loud
  footsteps exploded on the porch just over my head.

   Jennie woke up. "Shhh, " I whispered. "Shhh. "
  "Maggie! I know you're here. I know it! I'm not a stupid man. There's
  nowhere to run to."
  "Daddy . . . Daddy!" Jennie cried out, the way she had so many times in the
  safety of her crib.
  A flashlight suddenly shone under the porch. Bright, terrifying light
  blinded me. A thousand sharp splinters in my eyes.
  "Peekaboo! There you are! There's Jennie and Maggie. There's my two girls,"
  Phillip shouted in triumph. His voice was so hoarse and raw, it was nearly
  unrecognizable. I could almost make myself believe that this insane man
  wasn't my husband. How could he be?
   TWo deafening shots came from his gun. He fired
6   James Patterson

 right at us. He meant to kill either Jennie or me, maybe both of us. I had
 a surprise for Phillip, just this one time. Peekaboo yourself! I fired
 back.
         CHAPTER II

 SOMETIMES, I FEEL as though I'm wearing a horrifying scarlet letter--only
 the letter is M, for Murderess. I know this feeling will never completely go
 away and it seems so unfair. It is unfair. It's inhuman and indecent.
  The memories are jagged and chaotic, but at the end so vivid and horrifying
  that they are etched into my brain. They will be with me forever.
  I'll tell you all of it, sparing no one, especially myself. I know that you
  want to hear. I know this is a "big news story." I know what it is to be
  "news." Do you have any idea ? Can you imagine yourself as a piece of news,
  as cold black type that everybody reads, and makes judgments about?
  Area newspapers from Newburgh, Cornwall, Middletown called the first
  shooting the worst "family tragedy" in the history of West Point. To me, at
  the time, it seemed
8   James Patterson

 as though it had happened to someone else. Not to Jennie and me, or even to
 Phillip, as much as he may have deserved it.
  Yet a dozen years later, after time and my own denial had clouded the
  events still further and made even my emotions hazy, a second killing has
  forced me to remember West Point in all of its horrible vividness.
  I obsessively confront the questions that pound in my brain: Am I a
  murderer?

   Did 1 kill not one, but two of my husbands?
  I don't know anymore. I don't know! As crazy as that sounds, I honestly
  don't.
  It gets terribly cold here-sometimes it seems as cold as it was that
  Christmas Eve when Phillip died. All I can do is sit in this prison cell,
  in torment, and wait for the trial to begin.
  I decided to write it all down. I'm writing it for myself-but I'm also
  writing it for you. I'll tell you everything.
  When you've read it, you decide. That's how our system works, right? A jury
  of my peers.
  And, oh yes, I trust you. I'm a trusting person. That's probably why I'm
  here, in all of this terrible trouble.
BOOK ONE
Star-Crossed
                                     
         CHAPTER 1

 Early winter, 1984
  More snow. Another Christmas season. Almost a year after Phillip's death-or
  as some would have it, his murder.
  I sat back in the yellow cab as it bounced and plowed through the
  slush-filled New York streets. I was trying to put my mind in a calm place,
  but it wouldn't be still for me. I had promised myself I wouldn't be
  afraidbut I was very afraid.
  Outside the streaked, wet taxi window, even the Salvation Army Santa
  Clauses looked miserable. Nobody sane or sensible was out walking today;
  those who were would not take their hands from their pockets to make a
  donation. The traffic cops looked like abandoned snowmen. The pigeons had
  disappeared from every windowsill and rooftop.
   I glanced at my own reflection in the cab's window.
12   James Patterson

 Very long, blond hair, mostly with a mind of its own, but my best physical
 attribute, I thought. Freckles that no amount of makeup would ever cover.
 Nose a little out of proportion. Brown eyes that had, I knew, regained at
 least some of their half-forgotten sparkle. A small mouth, thickish
 lips-made, as Phillip joked in the happy days, for fellatio.
  The thought of him made me shudder. The idea of sex still makes me afraid,
  and much worse.
  It had been a year since the terrible shooting at West Point. My recovery
  was slow, both physically and mentally, and it wasn't complete. My leg
  still hurt, and my brain didn't function with the clarity I'd once taken
  pride in. I found myself frightened by small noises. I saw threats in
  nighttime streets when none existed. Previously in pretty good control of
  my feelings, I had lost that control. I would cry for no reason, grow angry
  at a neighbor's kindness, be suspicious of friends and afraid of strangers.
  There were times when I hated myself!
  There had been an investigation, of course, but no trial. If Jennie hadn't
  been so badly beaten, if it had been only me with bloodied hair and a
  damaged leg, I might have been sent to prison that first time. But the fact
  that my three-year-old was injured too made our claim of self-defense more
  convincing.
  No prosecutor wanted to take on the case, and the military academy was only
  too happy to have it hushed up.
  Officers, it was a well-known fact, did not attack their wives and
  daughters. Wives and daughters really didn't exist at the Point. We were
  decorative.
                    HIDE & SEEK   13

  So I took flight, and traveled to New York City, where I rented a
  two-bedroom apartment. It was a second-floor walkup in a dreary brownstone
  on West Seventy-fifth Street. I located a day school for Jennie. Our lives
  began to move at a slower pace.
  But I hadn't found what I wanted most: an end to the pain, a beginning to
  a new life.
  I was twenty-five years old. I wore the letter M. I had taken someone's
  life, even if it had been in self-defense.
  No guts, no glory, I urged myself on. I was definitely moving on sheer guts
  that day. I was chasing a dream I'd held on to and cherished for more than
  a dozen years.
  Perhaps today that new life would start. But was I doing the right thing?
  Was I ready for this? Or was I about to make a horribly embarrassing
  mistake?
  I tightly held a briefcase in my lap, filled with songs I had written
  during the past year. Songs-the music and the words-were my way of exposing
  my pain and expressing my hopes for the future.
  Actually, I'd been writing songs since I was ten or eleven. Mostly in my
  head, but sometimes on paper. The songs were the one thing that everybody
  seemed to like about me, the one thing I did well.
  Were they any good? I thought maybe they were, but Jennie and a squirrel
  named Smooch were the only ones who had heard them, and, eager for praise
  as I was, I knew enough not to trust the opinion of a four-year-old, or a
  squirrel.
  Soon, though, there would be another listener. I was on my way to audition
  the songs for Barry Kahn, the Barry Kahn, the singer-composer who had
  electrified
14   James Patterson

 America a decade ago and now was one of the most important record
 producers in the world. Barry Kahn wanted to hear my songs. Or so he said.
         CHAPTER 2

  WAS PETRIFIED.
   And then it got much worse.
   "You're late," he said. Those were his very first words to me. "I work on
   a very tight schedule."
  "It was the snow," I said. "It took forever to find a cab, and then it kept
  skidding. I guess I was nervous and asked the driver to go faster, only he
  went slower, and-"
  Jesus, I thought. You sound like a dumb parakeet. Pull yourself together,
  Polly. Right now!
  He was unmoved. Seemed like a real bastard. "You should have left earlier.
  My days are full. I plan ahead. So should you. Would you like coffee?"
  The question, the sudden politeness, took me by surprise. "Yes, please."
  He rang for his secretary. "Cream and sugar?" I nodded. His secretary
  appeared. "Coffee for Ms. Bradford,
16   James Patterson

 Lynn. The works. Danish?" I shook my head. "Nothing for me," he instructed,
 his voice filled with the huskiness that made his singing so distinctive.
  He dismissed Lynn with a wave, then sat at his desk with his eyes closed,
  as though he had all eternity. I wondered: Who the hell is this guy?
  He was in his early forties, I guessed, with a receding hairline and brown
  hair, a long nose, thin mouth, and a slight perpetual stubble on his chin.
  A homely face (the fans who think he's "sexy" are attracted by his soul,
  not his looks), but its lines suggested struggle and its repose peace. At
  our first meeting he was dressed casually, in gray flannel slacks and a
  blue shirt, open at the neck, obviously expensive but worn with lack of
  care. Barry Kahn looked rather sweet and harmless.
  Single, I deduced, and living alone. I wasn't interested in him that way,
  but I noticed anyway. I'm good with details. I always notice things,
  especially about people.
  Lynn returned with coffee in a china cup, and I took it from her, splashing
  it on my wrist. Not very relaxed. Indeed, kind of an ass. That's how I felt
  at the time anyway.
   Petrified!As in wood-that never, ever moves.
  Barry stood to offer assistance, but I waved him away. "I'm fine." I'm in
  control. I'm cool. Pay no attention to the scarlet M.
  Barry sat back down. "You're quite a letter writer," he said. I guess it
  was a compliment.
  In the hospital, as my recuperation progressed and I began composing song
  after song, I had planned to write only one letter to him, telling him that
  I admired him
                   HIDE & SEEK   17

 and hoped I could audition for him someday. But the one letter gave rise to
 another, and by April, I was writing him nearly every week, letters from
 deep inside my heart, to a person I had never met. Hooo boy!
  Weird, I know, but that's what I'd done. I sure couldn't take the letters
  back now.
  He didn't answer any of them, and I wasn't even sure he read them. I only
  knew they were never sent back unopened. But I continued to write the
  letters. Actually, the letters kept me going. Talking to somebody, even if
  the person didn't talk back.
  In a way, I think writing the letters helped me recover. I gradually got
  stronger, began to believe that one day I would be all right again. I knew
  Jennie would be okay, or at least as okay as you can be if, at age three,
  you've witnessed horrible mayhem in your own house.
  My sisters traveled from upstate New York, and took turns watching her. The
  hospital let Jennie visit as often as they could bring her. She was
  fascinated by my wheelchair and the electric bed. And she could thrill me
  whenever she hugged me and pleaded, "Sing me a song, Mommy. No. Make up a
  new song, and sing it."
  I sang to Jennie often. I sang for both of us. I wrote a new song a day.
  Then, an amazing thing happened. A miracle. A letter arrived for me at West
  Point Hospital.

  Dear Maggie, the letter said. Okay, okay, you win. I've no idea why I'm
  answering you, but I guess I'm an easy mark even though I don't like to
  think so and
18   James Patterson

  if you tell anybody else, that'll be it for us forever.
  In fact, your letters moved me. I get lots of mail, most of which my
  secretary throws away without showing to me. And the letters she does
  give me 1 throw away.
  But you-you're different. You remind me that there are real people out
  there, not just sycophants wanting to get into my studio. I feel I've
  actually come to know you a little bit, and that says a whole lot about
  what you've written so far.
   I was impressed with some of the lyrics
  you sent me. Amateur stuff you need a
  songwriting education-but powerful all the
  same because they say something. None
  of this means that (a) the education will do
  you any good; or (b) you can write music
  for a living, but okay, okay. I'll give you the
  half hour of my time you asked for "to
  find out once and for all if I've got a talent
  for songwriting or not. "
  When you get out of the hospital, call Lynn Needham, my secretary, to
  set up an appointment. But in the meantime, please don't write me any
  more letters. You've taken up enough of my time already. Don't write to
  me-write more songs!
         CHAPTER 3

 HE SIGNED THE letter "Barry," and now here I was and he was looking at me,
 and I felt hopelessly out of place, one of those "sycophants" he had
 grumbled about. I definitely hadn't overdressed-that wasn't my style. I had
 on a white peasant's blouse, pink camisole, a long black skirt, flat shoes.
 But at least I was here. I was going for it.
  I was trying so hard not to have any negative thoughts . . . but things
  like this, really good things, never happen to people like me. They just
  don't.
  "Do you sing your songs, or do you just write them?" he asked.
 "I sing them too, at least I hope you'll call it singing."
 Stop apologizing, Maggie. You don't have to apologize for anything.
   "Ever performed professionally?"
   "I did some backup singing in clubs around West
20   James Patterson

 Point, Newburgh. But my husband didn't like it when I did."
 "He didn't like much, did he?"
  "He thought I was exposing myself. Couldn't stand other men looking at me."
  So I shot him-#hree times.
  "But you'd be willing to try it now? Sing in public? You could do that?"
  My heart raced at the thought. "Yes, I could." It seemed the right thing to
  say.
  "Good answer." He gestured toward a beautiful, shining black Steinway at
  the far end of his office. "But your first test's in private. Did you bring
  anything?"
  I picked up my briefcase. "Lots. Do you want to hear ballads? Blues?"
  He winced. "No, Maggie. Just one. This is an audition, not a gig."
   One song? I thought. My heart sank.
  I had no idea which song to pick. One song? I had brought at least two
  dozen, and now I stood rattled and confused, as though I were standing
  naked in front of him.
  Put it in gear. He's human. He just doesn't act like it. You've sung these
  songs a thousand times before.
  "Go on," he said, looking at his watch. "Please, Maggie."
  I sucked in a deep breath and sat down at the piano. I'm fairly tall,
  self-conscious about it, so I prefer to sit. From the seat I could see the
  silent chaos of Broadway through his window.
   Petrified wood.
   Okay, I thought. You're here. You're actually audi-
                   HIDE & SEEK   21

 tioning for Barry Kahn. Now, knock his socks off. You . . . can . . . do .
 . . it.
  "This is a song called `Woman in the Moon.' It's about a . . . a woman who
  works nights cleaning buildings in a small town. How she always sees the
  moon from a certain window while she works. What she dreams about all night
  in the offices she cleans."
  I looked over at Barry Kahn. Jesus, I was in his office. I was the Woman in
  the Moon. He was sitting back, feet on the bottom drawer of his desk,
  fingers steepled together, eyes closed. He didn't say a word.
  Musically, "Woman in the Moon" was like Barry's own "Light of Our Times."
  I began to play, to sing in a soft, uncertain voice that suddenly seemed
  dreary and ordinary to me. As I sang, I sensed I was losing him.
  I finished. Silence. I finally dared to look at him. He hadn't changed
  position, hadn't moved. Finally he said, "Thank you."
   I waited. Nothing more came from Barry Kahn.
  I put the music back in the briefcase. "Any criticism?" I asked, dreading
  his answer, but wanting to hear something more than "thank you."
  He shrugged. "How can I criticize my own child? It's my music," he said,
  "not yours. My voice, imitated by yours. I'm not interested."
  I could feel a deep blush redden my face. I felt so humiliated, but also
  angry. "I thought maybe you'd be pleased. I wrote it in honor of you." I
  wanted to run out of the room, but I forced myself to stay.
   "Fine. Okay, I'm honored. But I thought you were
22   James Patterson

 here to play your songs. If I want echoes, I'll sing in a subway tunnel. Are
 all your songs like mine?"
  No, goddamn you. They're not like anybody else's songs! "You mean do I have
  something more original?"
  "Originality's what I'm looking for. Originality's a start."
  I began leafing through my sheet music. My fingers felt numb and unsure. A
  full marching band was stomping around inside my head. "Would you listen to
  one more?"
  He stood up. He was shaking his head, trying to stop me from going on.
  "Really, Maggie. I don't think-"
  "I do have one. Many. My own, not yours." I had promised myself I wouldn't
  be embarrassed.
  He sighed, having already given up on me. "Since you're here . . . one more
  song. One song, Maggie."
  I plucked out "Cornflower Blue." It was a little like an old Carole King
  hit. Maybe not original enough. Too precious. Too clever. More bullshit.
  The noise inside my brain had become a loud roar like the sound of an
  approaching subway train. I felt as though I were about to be run over.
  I stuffed "Cornflower" back in the briefcase and chose another song-"Loss
  of Grace." Yes. This was a better choice. I had written it recently, since
  I had come to New York.
   One song.
  I could feel Barry Kahn's eyes on me, feel his growing impatience. The room
  felt hot. I didn't look at him. Just at the music for "Loss of Grace."
   The song was about my marriage to Phillip. It was
                   HIDE & SEEK   23

 deeply personal. The initial ecstasy, the love I'd felt, or thought that I
 did. Then the mounting terror. The horror of that first fall from grace . .
 . and never being able to stop falling.
 One song.
  I turned to the piano, took one deep breath, and began to play.
  I sang very softly at first, then with mounting passion as the song gripped
  me and I remembered exactly what had inspired it. Phillip, Jennie, myself,
  our house near West Point.
  I could sense something new in the room as I sang, a kinship and
  understanding I had longed for in my letters, a bond between me and the man
  sitting silently at the other side of the room.
  I finished, and waited for what seemed like forever for him to say
  something. Finally, I turned around. His eyes were closed. He looked as
  though he had a headache. Barry Kahn opened his eyes.
  "You shouldn't rhyme `time' with 'mine,"' he said. "It's a false rhyme, and
  while you might get away with it in a country song it's distracting when
  you're trying something serious."
  1 began to cry. I couldn't help it. It was the last thing in the universe
  I wanted to do. I was furious at myself.
  "Hey," he said, but I had already jammed the song into my briefcase and was
  heading for the door. I almost started to run. I wouldn't run though.
   "Hey," he repeated. "Stop crying. Hold on a minute."
  I turned to him. "I'm sorry I took up so much of your precious, valuable
  time. But if all you can talk about is
24   James Patterson

 one lousy rhyme, when I've just sung my heart out, then there's no way we
 can work together. And don't worry. I won't bother you again."
  I rushed out the door, past an astonished Lynn Needham, and took the fancy
  Deco elevator to the lobby. Screw him. Screw Barry Kahn.
  I was tough enough to deal with this-I had to be. I had a little girl to
  take care of, not to mention myself to look out for. That was why I had
  written to half a dozen music companies besides Barry Kahn's from West
  Point Hospital. Tomorrow I would see one of the others. And then another.
  And another after that if I needed to.
  Somebody was going to like my music, my songs. They were too good, too
  true, for somebody not to listen, and to feel something.
  It's your loss, Barry Kahn, Mr. Big Shot. Mr. MyTime-Is-So-Precious!
   You missed out on Maggie Bradford!
         CHAPTER 4

 DID YOU EVER want to say, even to shout out loud, Hey, I'm smart. I'm an
 okay person. I have some talent.
  I shouted those very words in Times Square. No problem. Nobody even
  noticed. I fit right in with the rest of the loony-birds there.
  I wandered for a couple of hours, oblivious to the falling snow, then went
  to pick up Jennie at her school on West Seventy-third. I felt like absolute
  crap and hoped I didn't look it. Sheesh, what a day.
  "Let's celebrate," I said. "Tomorrow starts the Christmas holiday. Give
  your favorite mom a big hug, and we'll go to some fancy New York
  restaurant. Just the two of us. Where do you want to eat? Lutece? Windows
  On The World? Rumpelmayer's?"
  Jennie carefully thought the offer over, wrinkling her forehead and pulling
  on her chin, as she always does
26   James Patterson

 when she has to make an important decision. "How 'bout McDonald's. Then we
 can go see a flick."
  "Quarter Pounders it is!" I laughed, and took her small hand. "My sweet
  bunny rabbit, you're what's important. And you like my songs."
   "I love your songs, Mommy."
  The two of us began to babble at each other just
 like always. We were "best friends," "girlfriends," "the
 original motormouths," "soul sisters," "the odd couple."
 We would "never be alone, because we would always
 have each other."
  "How was your day, Sweetie? Boy, you've got to be tough to make it in New
  York. Fortunately, we're tough."
  "School was fun. I made another new friend named Julie Goodyear. She's real
  funny. Mrs. Crolius said I'm smart."
  "You are smart. You're also pretty, and you're a very nice person. You're
  awfully short though."
  "I'm going to be bigger than you, don't you think so?"
  "Yes, I think so. I think you'll be around seven foot or so."
   On and on and on like that.
   The motormouths.
   Best friends.
  We were both doing pretty well actually; getting used to New York-kind of;
  getting over Phillip as well as we could.

   To hell with Barry Kahn.

   You blew it, Mr. Big Shot!
                   HIDE & SEEK   27

 It was as dark as Phillip's heart by the time Jennie and I got home. All my
 feelings of defiance had evaporated, and I looked at the front of our
 run-down brownstone with complete dismay.
  Shit, shit, shit. I guess we'll have to live here a while longer. Like
  maybe the rest of our lives.
  I opened the front door, and it yawned as it always did. Typical New York
  reaction.
  Damn, damn, damn! The lights had gone out in the hall and on the
  first-floor landing.
  All I could see was a pattern of light edging its way through the
  first-floor window from the lamppost in front of the house.
   "Spooky," Jennie whispered. "Scary and spooky."
  "No," I said. "This isn't spooky. This is fun in the Big Apple." I took her
  hand and we started up the "fun" stairs.
  I stopped moving. My body tensed, and I tucked Jennie behind me to protect
  her.
  Somebody was sitting in the shadows on the landing. The person was silent,
  unmoving. It was somebody tall and well built.
   This wasn't good. This was scary and spooky.
  I moved toward the figure cautiously. "Hello. Who is it? Hello up there,"
  I called out, thinking of the horror stories I had heard about New York-and
  about the horrors I had recently endured in West Point.
  The person seemed to be wearing something on his head. A strange top hat?
  Something weird as hell.
28   James Patterson

  Phillip! I thought the unthinkable. I knew better, but the flashback came
  anyway.
  Phillip loved to frighten me, jumping out from behind a bush, from behind
  a closet door, knowing he could scare me and thinking it funny when he did.
  Once, on Halloween, he wore an Indian headdress and came at me with a
  tomahawk. It was the worst of the scares. At the end, of course, it was I
  who had jumped out at him, had leaped at him with the gun in my hand,
  firing . . . firing ...
  But Phillip was dead, I told myself, and there were no such things as
  ghosts, not even in New York.
  I inched closer. Still, the figure did not move. I neared the landing.
  "Hello!" I called again. "This isn't funny. Please talk to me. Just say
  hi."
  The sound of our stealthy footsteps on the stairs reminded me of Phillip's
  steps, the way he stalked around the house.
  Becoming a little hysterical, consumed by ancient fear, I forced myself to
  reach the landing.
  Behind me, Jennie whispered, picking up my fear. "Who is it, Mommy?"
  Not twice, I thought. You won't hurt us twice. No damn way!
  I lunged at the threatening figure, striking out at it with my heavy case.
  I hit the bastard hard.
  He toppled unresistingly, and I realized what I had done.
  "Oh my God! I can't believe it!" I started to laugh, relief not entirely
  wiping out the dread. "Hooo boy."
   Jennie hurried up the final stairs, laughing with me.
                   HIDE & SEEK   29

 "Phillip" was a mammoth basket of what had to be a few hundred dollars'
 worth of long-stemmed roses.
 I opened the note that came with them.

  TO MAGGIE BRADFORD.
  HERE'S TO THE FIRST DAY OF YOUR RETURN TO GRACE. IF YOU REALLY WANT THE
  JOB, YOU'RE CRAZY, BUT YOU'RE HIRED. YOU MADE MY `PRECIOUS TIME' PASS
  LIKE IT WAS NOTHING TODAY. TRUST ME ON THAI:
                           BARRY

 A kind of funny story, in retrospect anyway. A happy ending for sure. But
 as I write it now, the question comes again, and it's not so funny
 anymore. Not to me.
  When I'm in trouble, is my first impulse always to kill?
   Have I murdered, not once, but twice?
  A lot of people think so. One of them happens to be a prosecuting
  attorney for the southern district of New York.
   First, there was Phillip Bradford.
   And then-there was Will.
         CHAPTER 5

 San Diego, California, July 1967
  Will Shepherd, age six, was dreaming of Indians. Fierce and remorseless,
  they came at him in waves, their horses neighing and rearing, their arrows
  as long as spears, pointed at his heart. He loved the excitement, loved the
  movie in his head, loved the danger.
   He heard a splash!
  It didn't make any sense. Will opened his eyes, shut them almost
  immediately, then drifted back to sleep.
   Cowboys and Indians again.
   No splashes. Not in his movie anyway.
  Will woke again at quarter to eight, dressed quietly so as not to disturb
  his still-sleeping brother, Palmer, and hurried down through the quiet
  house.
  In the kitchen he fetched an armful of Welch's grape jelly, peanut butter,
  milk, and half a loaf of bread. Breakfast for one. Who needed a mother? Who
  needed anybody?
                   HIDE & SEEK   31

  Will saw his face and uncombed blond hair looking back at him from the side
  of the shiny toaster. He had to admit it, he thought. He missed his mother
  a lot. He missed her terribly. He missed her making peanut butter and
  jellies.
  He knew that she had gone to live in Los Angeles. He didn't have to suffer
  through the terrible fights she had with his father anymore, but at this
  moment he would have preferred the fights to the silence. Sometimes he and
  Palmer missed their mom so bad it made them cry at the stupidest times. But
  usually he hated her. Usually, but not today.

   The splash in the swimming pool?
  Suddenly Will remembered. He collected his dish and glass and put them in
  the sink, then ran out the screen door into sweet, dappled sunshine and the
  call of sparrows.
  He came tearing around the corner of the bluetrimmed white clapboard house,
  and ran to the edge of the pool. He stopped so suddenly he nearly fell over
  his own sneakered feet.
  And he screamed and screamed, screamed so shrilly he woke his little
  brother, whose face appeared at the window above him.
  Will screamed so bitterly that neighbors came rushing to his rescue. They
  held him, and tried to shield him from what he had already seen, and would
  never forget.
  What the six-year-old boy saw floating on the shimmering water of the pool
  was his father in his red-plaid bathrobe and beige trousers. On one foot
  was a yellow
32   James Patterson

 slipper; the other foarn slipper was drifting as free as a lily pad.
  His father's eyes were open, and staring right at him. Your fault, they
  seemed to tell him. Bad boy. This is your fault, Will.
   You know what you did!
   You know what you did!
  At 5:52 A.M. Anthony Shepherd had purposefully walked outside his house and
  drowned himself in the family pool.
  And whatever part of Will Shepherd that was worth saving seemed to drown
  with his father.

 A few days after their father's suicide, Will and Palmer spent their final
 California afternoon choosing from among all of their clothes and toys. Just
 enough to fill two suitcases each. No more than that.
  Their mother had refused to take them to live with her. Nobody told Will or
  Palmer why. The stupid cunt, Will thought, using bad words his father had
  used when he fought with her. The brothers had spent the days after the
  suicide with their nanny, who would not take them either, and now they were
  told they were going to England to people who would. They were to begin a
  new life with their aunts, Eleanor and Vannie, whom they had never met, but
  who had made the two-suitcase rule.
  In loud, chaotic, swarming Los Angeles International Airport, the two
  look-alike blond boys sat stone-faced and bewildered, awaiting their flight
  with Dr. Engles, one of their father's few friends. Dr. Engles was telling
  them about London, and the stupid Queen and the stupid
                   HIDE & SEEK   33

 changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace, just like in the poems his
 mother had read Will before she went away. But Will barely heard what stupid
 Dr. Engles was saying. He was remembering his father floating in the pool,
 staring up at him from some dead place.
  "Ladies and gentlemen, " Will did hear, "we are now ready to board Pan
  American flight four-eleven to New York and London. "
  Dr. Engles held out a hand to take Will's. "Well?" Suddenly, Will bit it
  savagely, as hard as he could, drawing blood.
  "Damn it," Dr. Engles said, cuffing him with his free hand. "You little
  shit! You little monster."
  Will opened his mouth. His front teeth were red. "I don't want to go to
  England," he howled. "Can't we stay here?"
   Please, Daddy.
   Please, Mommy.
   Please, somebody help me.
  I didn't mean to kill my daddy. I didn't mean to do it.
  Daddy, please stop looking at me like that. Pleas Daddy.
         CHAPTER 6

    ILL WOULD NEVER forget his first few hours in England. He and his brother
    might as well have traveled to the moon.
  Aunt Eleanor met them at the landing gate. She was a fat, fussy,
  powder-white-faced woman who was, Will guessed, more scared of him than he
  was of her. He disliked her instantly. She can't hurt me, he decided. No
  one will ever hurt me again, but especially not her.
  She explained that Aunt Vannie had stayed home to cook a special dinner for
  the boys. It'll taste like crud, Will decided. England is the worst place
  ever.
  On the way from Heathrow Airport, Aunt Eleanor never stopped talking, and
  the boys had little chance to observe their surroundings. Whenever they
  looked away from her, she would jab a finger and remind them to pay
  attention. Will seriously thought of biting the finger off.
                   HIDE & SEEK   35

  "A great many people who work in London live outside the centre. Close to
  an Underground stop. We live in Fulham, for example, and we have ever since
  your mother moved out to make her fortune in America. And I suppose she
  did, didn't she, marrying your father? She'll inherit all his money, you
  know, with nothing for you except as she chooses to give it, and goodness
  knows nothing for us, though we never expected anything from her. Not her."
  No. Never expect anything from my mother. Will knew Aunt Eleanor taught
  history in primary school, and that explained why she droned on, but her
  smell was of sweat, and who was she to be talking about his mother? He
  could tell Palmer didn't like her either. He was pretending to be asleep,
  the little faker.
  At last the cab pulled up in front of a three-story house, red brick with
  tiny windows and six steps leading up to the front door.
  "Here we are," announced Aunt Eleanor cheerfully, but Will thought about
  the trees and space and sunshine in San Diego and his chest grew tight.
  There were similar houses crowding in on each other on both sides of the
  street, and the one tree he could see was bent and beaten by the rain, and
  it had no leaves. Palmer took one suitcase, Aunt Eleanor another, and Will
  carried his own two up the steps, straining with the effort.
  Before they reached it, the front door was flung open, and a woman appeared
  wearing tight black trousers and a black turtlenecked sweater.
36   James Patterson

  Will gave a little, muffled cry. He felt his heart pound and his face
  suddenly grow hot.
  The woman was young, with ash-brown hair falling halfway down her back. Her
  eyes were blue and her skin was pale. It's my mother, he thought.
   Only of course, she wasn't.
  She was his Aunt Vannie, his mother's younger sister, but she reminded him
  achingly of the woman who once, long ago, it seemed, held him, cuddled him,
  told him she loved him, and then went away. And he was filled with a
  curious mixture of dread and delight. He wanted at once to fling himself
  into her arms, and to run away screaming down the street.
  "Take off your shoes before you come in," Vannie said. "We don't want dirt
  trodden all over the house, do we?"
  The house. England. His new home. His new life. His very own horror story.
  It was just beginning.
         CHAPTER 7

 THE LEGEND BEGAN early, and it never really varied.
 Will is an extremely intelligent and very clever boy, but he seems to be an
 incorrigible master of the Charming, Audacious, Very Big Lie! So wrote the
 headmaster of the Fulham Road primary school in the spring of 1970.
  If he worked harder, his marks would be much improved, but he seems
  interested only in sports, where he excels, and in picking fights with his
  classmates, where he is the acknowledged champion. I personally wonder if
  he is even aware of the elemental aspects of social behavior or, for that
  matter, the elemental difference between reality and fantasy.
  Will understood the difference-but he had made his choice about which he
  preferred.
   On weekends, Will often took solitary walks around
38   James Patterson

 his neighborhood. One day, when he was eleven, he heard shouts coming from
 a stadium about a mile from his aunts' home. Intrigued, he went to
 investigate. He paid a week's pocket money to get in.
  There, in front of him, was a perfectly dazzling sight: twenty-two men,
  divided in uniform but united in purpose, were playing what they called
  "football" in England, but what Will knew as soccer. Only on TV had he seen
  the game played this way.
  He had played the game well at school, but felt it had been haphazard, just
  a bunch of boys kicking the ball around any way they could.
  Here, there was symmetry, geometry, coordination in attack, a beauty as
  inevitable as the waves of the ocean. One man, controlling the ball with
  his feet, moved forward; another raced to his side; a third began a run
  down the wing, received the ball from the second man without breaking
  stride, and veered toward the center of the field, pursued by an opponent
  who dived at the attacker's feet and managed to push the ball to one of his
  teammates.
  And then, suddenly, everything reversed, like the tide going out. Defenders
  became attackers, attackers defenders, a whirling mass; Will was reminded
  of a kaleidoscope his father had given him when he was five.
  And the noise! Each time there was a reversal, each time one team
  threatened the goalkeeper, the crowd roared, as though they shared the
  breath coming out of the athletes' mouths, and when eventually a goal was
  scored, the roaring rose to such a pitch Will thought his ears would burst
  and his heart explode.
   That night his mother came to him in his dream, and
                   HIDE & SEEK   39

 while he watched in horror, she kissed his father's open dead eyes, and
 laughed at Will. Her teeth were red, dripping blood.
 You know what you did, Will.

 It's all your fault.

 One morning, several days later, he found a lost dog on the streets of
 Fulham. The dog was male, a tan-andbrown runaway. Finally, he had a pal in
 shitty old England.
  "C'mon, dog. C'mon with me," he said and patted the side of his thigh
  several times. "C'mon, Lassie."
  Will wandered into a municipal park and the lonely mutt followed like his
  shadow. He didn't know why he was feeling angry, but he was. The feeling
  came over him a lot actually, ever since he'd left California. Ever since
  his father had killed himself. His father's suicide was a really bad deal
  for Will. He still felt responsible, but even worse, he'd convinced himself
  that was how he himself would end up.
  He sat down by a small pond. The dog was still with him. His new buddy.
  Will finally shook his head at the mutt. "Big mistake, staying with me," he
  said. "Bad luck follows me around. I'm not kidding."
   The dog gave a whimper, and put out its paw.
  But Will was getting angrier about lots of things. His father, his aunts,
  Palmer. He felt as though he had a tight belt around his chest. His head
  was tingling. He was seeing mists of light red.
   Will reached down into the cold, shallow water and
40   James Patterson

 pulled out a fist-sized stone. Without a hint of warning, he whacked the dog
 on the side of the head. He struck the dog a second time, and it fell over
 moaning. One sad, brown eye looked up at him. He kept hitting the dog until
 it was dead.
  He didn't know why he'd done it. He liked the dog. At any rate, Will found
  that he wasn't angry anymore. He felt okay. Actually, he didn't feel much
  of anything.
  He had even made a little self-discovery; there was a distinctly good part
  in him, but also a bad part.
   There were two Wills, weren't there?
         CHAPTER 8

    ILL KNEW FROM the start that he had greatness in him, and that he wasn't
    really impressed by it. But others sure were.
  Will Shepherd was the youngest ever to play for the Fulham School's first
  eleven. When he was just eleven, he persuaded the coach to let him train
  with the team; he was immediately selected and, oblivious to the jeers of
  his teammates, who were older than Will by five or six years, he became the
  team's leading scorer. Their top striker!
  When he was twelve, Fulham won the London school league championship, and
  did not lose again until after Will left the school. As a fourteen-year-old
  he scored nine goals in a game his team won 12-0.
  Will was wispy and long-legged for his age, but surprisingly well balanced.
  He was extraordinarily fasthe ran, his coach said, "as an arrow flies." He
  ran like
42   James Patterson

 southern California half-backs and wide receivers in American-style
 football.
  Will practiced every day, every spare hour, until the ball seemed almost an
  extension of his foot, or at the very least a satellite body attached by an
  invisible wire. He sometimes practiced as much as sixteen hours on a
  Saturday or Sunday. The field was his home, not that shitty place where his
  aunts and Palmer lived.
  Local newspaper reporters made him a schoolboy legend around London. They
  always commented on his reckless style, highly personal and unusual, which
  they attributed to his being American-born.
  But that wasn't the reason at all. What none of them understood was that
  Will secretly worked on, and perfected, his individualistic style. He had.
  Will decided it was essential to be different, to be noticed, to stand out,
  rather than to be viewed as a loner. Will understood precisely what the
  game meant in his life: English-style football meant not being lonely and
  afraid; this new kind of football meant not thinking about his sodding
  mother and father ever again.
  Football was his only weapon. It was going to save him. It had to.
         CHAPTER 9

 Spring 1985
  For a year and a half, Barry Kahn worked my pianoplaying fingers to the
  bone. We started with lyrics, and the theories behind them: Bob Dylan's
  theory, Joni Mitchell's theory, Rodgers & Hart's theory, Johnny Mercer's
  theory. Barry's basic theory was that hard work conquers mediocrity.
  He made me write and rewrite, forcing me deeper and deeper into my past
  until there were days when I wanted to beg him not to push me so hard, to
  let me rest. But I didn't ask for a bit of mercy. I secretly wanted to be
  pushed even more.
  He was remorseless, and so was I. "You're denying," he'd say. "You're
  hiding in cheap rhymes and phony sentiment." Or: "You're not feeling
  anything. I know it because I can't feel it. And if I'm left cold, just
  think what an audience will do. They'll crucify you, Maggie."
44   James Patterson

 "What audience?" I asked him.
  "You don't see an audience? You don't feel an audience that has to hear
  your songs? If you really don't, then get out of here. Don't waste my
  time."
  So on I went until at last we were both satisfied, and I was able to turn
  to the art of composing. Here too he was strict and unyielding, but music
  came more easily to me than words. I felt comfortable with it. One day he
  said I could turn it on and off like water from a faucet. I think he was a
  little jealous. I kind of liked that-competing with him, being on his
  level.
  Last came the singing, and Barry was a true master of this. He taught me
  phrasing, accenting, diction. How to sing in front of an audience, how to
  use a mike in a recording studio. I had, he told me, a natural voice,
  unlike any other singer's, but it was in this area that it was hardest to
  judge. "The public alone will decide," he said. "Who could have imagined
  Bob Dylan's voice capturing an audience's heart-until it did? Your voice is
  edgy, openhearted. Lots of sudden shifts of mood intonation to fit your
  lyrics. You can sound caring, cold, bored, maternal, loving. I love your
  voice!"
  He did? Finally, a compliment. I memorized it, word for word.
  I practiced in the nearby Power Station recording studio, not only
  performing my songs but acting as a gofer, going on endless
  sandwich-and-coffee errands. I wore a long black overcoat down to my boots;
  I wore it everywhere. I was "tall blondie with the coat, can you get us
  sandwiches?" I was "sure, no problem. What do you like?"
                    HIDE & SEEK   45

  I resented being treated like that, figured Barry would never do it to a
  man, but he insisted it was an important part of the job, and if I didn't
  like it I could go elsewhere.
   There was, I knew, no "elsewhere."
  There was Jennie, of course. The "motormouths" were alive and well.
  There was Lynn Needham, who had turned into a real pal, an occasional
  sitter, my official New York tour guide, my shoulder to lean on.
  There was our West Side walk-up, the den of iniquity, which had only one
  really cool feature-a turn-of-thecentury bathtub built right in the
  kitchen. I loved taking hot bubblebaths in the kitchen!
  There were occasional dates, but nothing even close to anything serious. I
  began to remember what I'd felt like before Phillip-too tall, too gawky, a
  little tonguetied, inadequate for all the wrong reasons, not big enough
  breasts, too many bad hair days. But really, what it all came down to, was
  that I was afraid to get involved again. I didn't want to have to tell
  anyone what had happened with Phillip-no, to Phillip. I had this huge
  scarlet M on my chest, and I didn't think it would ever come off, wash off,
  whatever.
   Nope, there was no "elsewhere."
CHAPTER,  10

I WAS the coffee-and-sandwiches person, but do you know what-it was so much
better than my life had been. It really sucked sometimes, I hated those
despicable runs to the Famous deli, hated being "blondie with the coat," but
I also loved it. It was writing, composing, learning. I was part of something
that on occasion could be very beautiful and moving.
  One morning at the "music factory," my buddy Lynn Needham peeked into my
  cubicle/storage bin. "You better drop everything, except maybe that hot
  coffee. Mr. Wonderful calls."
  Barry tried to reserve some time for me at the end of most days, so this
  was an unusual summons. I hightailed it to his office. His time was still
  precious.
  "I've got good news, and unfortunately, bad news," Barry said as I entered
  the room where I had once auditioned to be his gofer.
                   HIDE & SEEK   47

  I could feel my pulse racing a little. Tell me what's happened! Don't drag
  it out.
  "I sent one of your songs to California," he continued. " `Loss of Grace.'
  The revision you showed me last week. Someone likes it out there. Wants to
  record it."
  Impulsively, I ran and hugged him. I don't think I'd ever done that before.
  I know I hadn't.
  He smiled and gently pushed me away. He looked me squarely in the eye. "Now
  for the bad news. That `someone' wants to sing it herself."
  It was my song. "Tell her no," I said. Suddenly, I was crestfallen. "No.
  Barry, please."
  "Don't you want to know who that someone is? I had to agree she could sing
  it. That was the deal breaker."
  I had a nightmarish vision of some third-rater, some other up-and-comer
  getting my song all wrong. "Of course I want to know who she is. But if she
  messes up, I'll murder her!" Bad choice of words, I know.
  "I think she'll get it right." He grinned like the sweet person he could be
  sometimes. "It's Barbra Streisand. She wants to record `Loss Of Grace.' And
  she wants you out there with her."
  I hugged Barry again. I crushed him and kissed him on both cheeks. Good-bye
  to shlepping for coffee and pastrami sandwiches-hello to Hollywood!
        CHAPTER 11

 BOOKED A flight to Los Angeles for Jennie and me. We deserved it; we'd
 earned it. Once we got out
  there, I found myself driving a rented Saab Turbo up to the Beverly Hills
  Hotel. It seemed as though we were a million miles from West Point.
  "It's pink!" Jennie exclaimed as we curled up the hotel driveway and
  stopped in front. "My favorite color. It's pink everywhere."
  "I had it painted, just for you," I told her. "I called ahead. I told them
  to think pink."
  "Motormouths!" Jennie yelled as we sat in the impressive hotel carport.
   "Forever!"
  A handsome, beachboy-blond bellhop carried our beat-up overnighters as if
  they were Louis Vuitton. He led us to a lovely cottage tucked behind the
  main hotelBungalow Six, our own private pied-a-terre, all arranged
                   HIDE & SEEK   49

 by Barry ("so you and Jennie make exactly the right impression"). He would
 know about that-I sure didn't.
  "This is you, ma'am. And you too, little ma'am." The bellhop smiled and
  swung open the door with a flourish.
  I had to take a quick step backwards. Dozens of American Beauty roses were
  waiting inside. "Jeez, " I whispered. The blush-red flowers were everywhere
  I looked.
  "Are there always this many flowers?" I joked. The humor sailed over the
  bellhop's shaggy blond mop. The lights are on, I realized, but there's
  nobody home at Hotel California.
   "Oh, no, ma'am. It's a gift. There's a card."

  WELCOME TO TINSEL TOWN. I THINK YOU'RE ABOUT TO HIT IT VERY BIG. DON'T
  BE FOOLED BYALL THE GLITTERY GOLD, THOUGH . . . OR A FEW DOZEN ROSES
  EITHER LOVE YA AND JENNIE TOO, B.

  Love ya too, Barry. But I'll never bring you another cup of coffee for as
  long as I live.
        CHAPTER 12

 MAYBE YOU CAN imagine what I was feeling, or maybe nobody ever could.
 This was everything I had dreamed of. All my mind-breaking work, all of
 Barry's merciless bullying, all the voice lessons and the rewrites. Now,
 here I was, my stomach tied in sailor's knots, peeking down the semidarkened
 corridor leading to Recording Room A in the famous Devan Sound Studios.
  Famous songs are recorded here. My song could be famous too. Hooo boy.
  This was it, boom or bust; that one big shot everybody says they want, but
  that so many of us never get, and I sure never thought I would.
  I knew that different studios achieved a curious mystique, sometimes a
  superstitious reputation, within the tight clique of major musicians,
  superstar singers, and their managers. For years, Elton John would record
  only
                   HIDE & SEEK   51

 in an isolated chateau in the south of France. The Rolling Stones had
 recorded in a ticky-tacky houseboat in Jamaica to get a certain sound. A lot
 of country singers wanted a specific Nashville studio, and only Chet Atkins
 could produce their records.
  Devan was like that in L.A. I held Jennie's hand. We watched in a kind of
  dream as a Barry Kahn/Barbra Streisand recording session unfolded before
  our eyes.
  I didn't like it! I hated it, actually. I wanted to scream at the two of
  them. Barbra's voice was not the one I'd had in my head when I composed
  "Loss of Grace." Her style was too distinctive, too overpowering.
  "What do you think?" I asked Jennie. She had heard me sing the song
  hundreds of times at home. She knew my phrasing, the big emotion shifts.
  "Not as good as you," Jennie said after a moment's deliberation, "but I
  like this one too. It's so pretty." Traitor. Infiltrator.
  It got prettier as they worked on it though. Each take got better. I began
  to hear things in my own song I never knew existed. It was my song, but it
  became hers too. I realized it was a nearly perfect collaboration.
  I sat back and quietly ate some crow. Barry kept stopping by between takes.
  He was being so nice to Jennie and me, so supportive and encouraging
  suddenly.
  After a while, I imagined Barbra Streisand was singing only for me, the way
  I had sung to Jennie, and I felt transported to a place where the music and
  all my emotions came together. I was back at West Point, but in happier
  times, when I used to sing to Smooch the squir-
  52   James Patterson

 rel, and only occasionally let myself dream about moments like this.
 I began to feel numb all over, but nice-numb.
  There were at least a hundred different takes before Barbra and Barry
  pronounced themselves satisfied, and the tension in the control room
  dissolved into dumb jokes and contagious laughter. I felt a powerful surge
  of relief, as though I had done the actual singing. I bowed my tired head.
  I felt a hand touch my shoulder. I turned, and looked into the face of
  Barbra Streisand. She had snuck up on me.
  In real life (if this was real life) she was striking, but not
  conventionally beautiful. There was kindness in her eyes, and her smile was
  sympathetic. I'd already seen that she could be tough, but she had a soft,
  sweet side as well. Don't believe everything you read in the papers-trust
  me on that one.
  "I know what you must feel right now," she said. "A little bit, anyhow. I
  remember my Broadway debut, my first recording session. Butterflies and the
  shakes, right?"
   "Just your basic out-of-body experience," I said.
  She sat down next to Jennie and me. "Just remember that you earned this.
  All the sweat and the tears and the troubles before today give you a right
  to enjoy this tremendously. Your song would be a hit no matter who sang it.
  Because I did, it'll get the attention it deserves. I love your music,
  Maggie, and so will everyone else. Write more for me. Please?"
   Then she kissed me on the cheek, and gave me a hug.
                   HIDE & SEEK   53

 "Thank you," she whispered. "Your song is so true, and the truth inside you
 is staggering."
  For a moment I was tongue-tied, then began to regain my composure. "Shoot,
  I'm trying not to say anything too stupid," I whispered to her. "You can't
  imagine what this means to me, to Jennie and me."
  "Oh yes," she said. "I can definitely imagine. The first song is the best
  of them all." Then she looked at Jennie. "Your mom is amazing."
  Jennie smiled and nodded. "I know," she said, "but sometimes, she doesn't."
        CHAPTER 13

 USED TO daydream all the time about stuff like this happening. Everybody
 does. So this had to be a crazy daydream, didn't it?
  I sold a lot of songs in a very short period of time. I was hotter than a
  ten-dollar pistol. I had the same thought every morning as I woke up in the
  tiny New York walk-up that I was still too insecure to give up: None of
  this can be happening.
  One night, Barry took me to a very ritzy New York restaurant to celebrate
  "Maggie's greatest hits," as he called them. I continued to be a hot item.
  Stories about me had appeared in Rolling Stone, Spin, People. It was
  bizarre, unreal, not my style, but I didn't want it to stop. I felt like
  somebody, probably for the first time in my life.
  It was twilight when we arrived at Lutece on Fiftieth Street in Manhattan.
  We were seated with a certain
                    HIDE & SEEK   55

 amount of pomp and circumstance in the garden room. Barry knew the chef, the
 owner, the busboys.
  "Is this a date?" I asked him. I was kidding-I think I was.
  "This is my way to make up, once and for all, for our very first
  interview," he said and smiled. He was in a great mood. We both were. We
  ordered champagne cocktails, then I had foie gras, salmon with sorrel
  sauce, a plum souffle. None of this can be happening.
  "I could have cooked all that," I said as we finished and ordered brandy
  and coffee.
  "I believe that you could. You know," Barry went on, "nothing has made me
  any happier than watching you-"
   "Come back to life?"
  "Blossom," he said. "You know that it's hard for me to talk like this, but
  it's true. It's how I feel."
  Suddenly, I was a little nervous and uncomfortable. I wondered if this
  really was a date. I didn't think I was ready for it yet. I was also afraid
  of spoiling the friendship that Barry and I had.
  Barry winked at me then. He must have sensed my discomfort. "More and more,
  people are going to want to hear you, Maggie. Your words, your music, your
  special voice. That sultry contralto of yours. There isn't going to be any
  stopping you, Maggie. There are no limits to where you can go."
  I started to cry. In the garden room of Lutece. I didn't really care who
  saw me. I was so goddamn happy, so absolutely thrilled.
56   James Patterson

  Barry used his napkin to dab at my cheeks. We both started to laugh.
  "So tell me about yourself. Who the hell are you, Maggie? You're not
  `blondie in the coat' anymore. That's for sure."
  I had kept everything bottled up inside, but that night I let some of it
  out. Barry was my friend and I trusted him, which was a big step too.
  "There's a small town about twenty miles above West Point. Newburgh," I
  began.
  "Been there. No desire to go back," he said and made a face. "The main
  street looks like Beirut. That Newburgh?"
  "It used to be a beautiful city, Barry. Sits right over the Hudson River.
  Small town America, that's me."
  "I hear some of that in your songs, Maggie. Honest, sincere, not too much
  cynicism. Corny, but what the hell." He grinned mischievously.
  I was feeling very self-conscious. "You sure you want to hear this?"
  "Stop putting yourself down. Pleez. You're going to be a big star now.
  Everything you say will be considered interesting. You were interesting the
  first day you came to my office."
  I punched Barry in the arm-hard-for that one. I shut my eyes, opened them
  again. This was hard for me. I didn't like to talk about it, not even to
  Barry.
   Finally, I took a deep breath, and began:
  "My parents drank too much. Slight understatement there. They were both
  alcoholics. My father was wild, ran around. He left us when I was four. My
  pop. I
                   HIDE & SEEK   57

 developed this horrible stutter that used to embarrass me to tears. I
 buh-buh-beat it though. Mom died when I was in the eighth grade. My two
 sisters and I stayed with my Aunt Irene. I moved out when I graduated from
 high school. My sisters both married and moved upstate.
  "Teachers all wanted me to go to college. I just couldn't see myself there.
  I got a job at a fancy restaurant near West Point. Met Phillip. He loved
  me. Said he did, acted like it. I really needed for somebody to love me. I
  mean-really needed it."
  Barry frowned. "Phillip was your pop all over again, Maggie. We have a
  tendency to repeat our worst mistakes, don't we?"
  "1 guess so. He was a mathematician in the new army. Repressed. Vulnerable.
  Even needier than I was. Phillip turned out to be a drinker too. Just like
  Daddy. I wanted to save him, of course. Thought I could."
  "He hit you, beat you up?" Barry said and lightly touched my cheek. It was
  just the right thing to do. My friend.
  "I didn't know how to get out of it. Not back then. I didn't know where I
  could go, how I could possibly bring up Jennie. I used to escape to the
  attic of our house and write songs all the time. I'd sing them for Jennie.
  Both of us up in the attic."
   "You never performed them around West Point?"
  I shook my head. "Forget it! I was much too afraid for that."
  "You lied to me during your job interview. You're fired."
   "That's okay," I said. I touched Barry's cheek. "I can
58   James Patterson

 take care of myself and Jennie now. Thanks for helping me."
  "I did nothing. I just watched it happen. You're an amazing person,
  Maggie. I hope you realize that yourself someday."
  I leaned across the table and gave Barry the gentlest kiss. We were such
  good friends and I loved him. I could think that-I just couldn't say it.
   "You're the best," I whispered.
  "No. Only the second best. I mean that, Maggie. Remember where you heard
  it first."
        CHAPTER 14

 ULY SECOND OF my year of years, the best time in my life by about ten
 thousand percent. I was at
  the Meadowlands sports stadium outside New York City. I was there with
  Jennie and Barry.
  I will never forget this. No one can take this part away.
  A few minutes after eight-thirty the outrageous New York disc jockey, Bret
  Wolfe, came prancing out onto the Meadowlands' concert stage. He was
  dressed like a naughty teenager who shouldn't have been let out of the
  house by his parents.
  The first warm-up act was scheduled to begin soon. Everybody in the
  audience knew that the headlinersR.S.V P-wouldn't make their grand
  appearance until at least ten, probably even later than that.
   They were in for a shock though.
   Bret Wolfe could barely be heard over the noise of
60   James Patterson

 the crowd: "It is my distinct pleasure to introduce. . . " The orchestra
 struck up a familiar melody. Glowing fluorescent flying objects flickered up
 toward the blandfaced quarter moon sitting over the stadium roof.
  ". . . My distinct pleasure to introduce to you--Ladies and Gentlemen . .
  . R.SYP!"
  Stunned silence followed, then there was chaos in the audience that was
  still lazily milling into the stadium.
  "I can't believe it's them. They shouldn't be on for hours!"
   "Jesus, what's going on? What is this shit?"
  From backstage, I watched as long paper streamers and electric blue
  fireworks rocketed high above the stage. Billowing smoke and gold lame
  sparks erupted and drifted east toward New York. The R.S.V.P. lead singer,
  Andrew Tone, lithe and very sexy, stepped to the microphone and held it
  like a live snake. He ran a hand through his long, sandy-brown hair.
  "We're Alive and Kicking!" He raised his fist. The band hit its trademark
  downbeat. R.S.VP began to sing the song that was currently number one just
  about everywhere in the world.
   Next came "Champion of Myself."
   Then the ballad "Loving a Woman of Character."
  The audience was in an absolute frenzy. No one could understand what was
  happening. Tens of thousands of fans wouldn't come until nine-thirty, when,
  ordinarily, the local bands and warm-up groups would just be finishing.
  The music finally stopped. Andrew Tone stepped to the microphone. He held
  up his hands for silence.
                   HIDE & SEEK   61

  "Don't worry," he said. "We'll sing those songs over again when everybody's
  here. You early birds deserved a treat though. You're the real music
  lovers, right?"
  Cheers. Some laughter. But the baffling mystery continued for the audience.
  What was R.S.V P doing onstage already?
  "We sang those songs for a special reason. `Alive.' `Champion.' `Woman.' I
  know they're three of our best songs. You know they are."
  Loud applause confirmed Andrew Tone's opinion of their opinion.
  "The thing of it is, these three songs were all written by our first-and
  only-warm-up act tonight. And this is the best warm-up act we've ever had."
  Some in the audience might have known my name. Few could have realized I
  was a singer. Behind Andrew Tone, a bevy of stagehands wheeled out a piano.
  The stagelights went off and a spotlight hit the keys.
  There was a murmur in the crowd, expectant but wary. Everybody's curiosity
  was up.
  "She is a real woman of character," Tone went on, speaking softly, away
  from the light. "It's her first live concert appearance-which is why we
  came out early. We wanted to introduce her. It's our way of thanking her
  for her songs.
  "I guarantee you one thing! This is the last time the lady will be opening
  for anyone. So listen. Hold on to your heads. Hold on to your hearts. THIS
  IS THE MINDBLOWING, HEART STOPPING MAGGIE BRADFORD!"
        CHAPTER 15

 LISTENED TO Andrew go on and on. Too much, I thought. He was raising their
 expectations way too
  high. He made it sound as though some scintillating world-class singer were
  coming onstage.
  He wasn't talking about me. He couldn't be. The building pressure put a
  steel band around my chest. I had a contralto voice anyway, and had trouble
  hitting the real high notes.
  I thought I wouldn't be able to play, much less sing. Not only didn't I
  feel like "a woman of character," I felt I had absolutely no spine.
   1 could barely breathe.
  I made myself walk onto the massive concert stage. There was applause,
  sincere but scattered.
  I remembered Andrew Tone's words: "It's her first live appearance. "
   I got my first full look at the slow-rising mountain
                   HIDE & SEEK   63

 of faces; the brightly colored, ragtag quilt of clothes; the streaming
 spotlight that made the piano look huge and frightening and self-important.
  Oh, God, I can't possibly do this. There's an entire city out there
  watching me.
  A wave of panic suddenly swept over me. I felt exactly as I did when I used
  to stutter and stammer in school.
  I knew many of the orchestra players from recording sessions in New York.
  They were standing now and clapping for me too.
  "Cut it out, guys," I yelled to them. "It's only me. Stop, stop, stop!"
  "Go get 'em Maggie!" a drummer named Frankie Constantini yelled at me.
  "You're the best."
  Somehow, I made it to the piano. I even managed to sit down without
  fainting, or having a major coronary.
  I am considered tall at five feet eight inches, and Barry said I was
  "striking" that night, but I just felt gawkythe same way I'd felt as a
  teenager. I'd let my hair grow very long, and it cascaded down my back. At
  least I liked my hair. If nothing else, my hair was cool.
  "I was living in West Point," I managed to say, speaking in a low voice
  into the gleaming silver microphone. "I was living in West Point, near the
  military academy there. I was a housewife and a mother named Mrs. Bradford.
  I loved to sit in the attic, I remember. There was a squirrel there named
  Smooch, and before my daughter, Jennie, was born, he was my friend. I loved
  to sit in the attic because there I was safe. There I wasn't afraid that my
  husband might come and hit me. There I began to write songs."
64   James Patterson

  My mind felt as though it had exploded. Phillip was in it, as vivid as when
  he was alive. I could hear his footsteps on the stairs in our old house,
  the menace in his voice: You can't hide from me! My hand was trembling.
  I willed my fingers to strike the piano keys. I sang with all my heart,
  everything inside of me:

      I used to be a housewife A new wife A midwife I used to live the
      good life High in the storm king mountains. I used to give him
      haircuts Fix cold cuts Mend shirt cuffs My name was Mrs. Bradford
      And I thought I was going to die. Battery He hit me! This can't be
      me This can't be me Battery I used to be a housewife A new wife A
      midwife He hit me! How can he say he loves me When I think I'm going
      to die?
                   HIDE & SEEK   65

  The applause grew louder, and then unbelievably louder. People began to
  stamp their feet in rhythm to the beat. The noise was like a physical
  presence rising out of the stadium. It carried me higher than I had ever
  been in my life.
  It told me that all these people believed in me. They believed my story.
  It was like nothing I had ever experienced, not even in dreams, and I have
  to confess, I never wanted it to stop.
   Hooo boy, hooo boy, hooo boy.
        CHAPTER 16

 THAT WAS THEN; and this is now. I could never have imagined being where I
 am right now, in prison in New York.
  It seems so inconceivable, so impossible. I couldn't conceive of any set
  of circumstances that would have gotten me here.
  This week they brought a top, well-respected psychiatrist to see me, a
  woman named Deborah Green.
  I guess I couldn't blame anyone for thinking that I might be crazy.
  The husband killer. That's what I'm called in the newspapers.

   The black widow of Bedford.
  I visited with Dr. Green in a small conference room beside the chapel,
  which made me smile at least.
  I was pleased to learn that Dr. Green specialized in physical-abuse
  cases, rather than homicides.
                   HIDE & SEEK   67

  She made it easy for me. She told me about herself, and why she had been
  chosen, and that if she wasn't right for me, she'd leave. She was my age,
  soft-spoken, unassuming.
  I guess I liked her well enough. Trust? Well, that might come later.
  "How's this?" I said to her. "I'll make this easy. I'll tell you everything
  that's on my mind. I don't see the point in the two of us having secrets."
  I was facing Dr. Green, rather than lying on the cot that had been
  provided. She nodded, then she smiled. She was good at this, getting people
  to talk.
  Of course, I wasn't being truthful with her-there was one important secret
  I wasn't telling her, or anyone else.
   Ironically, it was what might have saved me.
  "However you want to do this, Maggie," she said. "If you want to unload a
  lot of junk, go ahead."
   I laughed. "It is junk, isn't it?"
   Yes, I wanted to unload.
  So, in those first few sessions, I told Dr. Green everything that all the
  newspapers and TV stations wanted to know, and couldn't get out of me for
  any amount of money.
  I told Dr. Green what made me anxious, ashamed, and also, very angry.
  Like about my father, and how he'd left my mother in 1965. Just walked out
  and left us as though we were some motel he'd visited going cross-country.
  Like my terrible stuttering from around age four to thirteen. How it had
  hurt so much when kids made fun
68   James Patterson

 of me; how it had made me feel worthless and small; how I had beat it by
 myself, with no help from anyone.
  Like writing songs in my head, to escape from the negative voices in my
  childhood world.
  Like Phillip, who everybody thought was this nice, quiet college
  professor-but he wasn't, really. He had his black Corvette that he used to
  back out of the drive at about forty miles an hour; he had his gun
  collection; he had his rules to be followed at every waking moment, and
  probably while I was sleeping too.
  I talked for about two hours at a clip, and Dr. Green rarely stopped me.
  Finally, though, I was talked out during our third or fourth session.
   "I do think you left something out," she finally said.
   "What's that?" I asked her.
   "Well, what about Will Shepherd? Remember him?"
   Oh yes, Will.
   The man I was in here for killing.
  "I've been working up to Will," I said. "Will is in his own special class."
        CHAPTER 17

 ILL HAD LEARNED to put on a good act in school, and to get by with it. He
 was already being touted as the best young football player in London. And he
 was very popular-with the girls anyway. He still didn't have a good friend
 though.
  Early in the summer following his fourteenth birthday, he came down with
  the Asian flu. Chills and fever possessed him. He actually was afraid he
  might die, and go join his father.
  His Aunt Vannie nursed him through the high fever. She was there for him.
  This was unusual, for until now, anytime Will got sick, it was Aunt Eleanor
  who brought him his food and comforted him. Indeed, sick or well, Vannie
  was a remote figure in his life. She went out almost every night, often on
  dates with men who squired her for a few evenings, and then disappeared to
  be replaced by others.
70   James Patterson

  Mostly, Will and Vannie played chess, and they chatted. She was an avid
  player, but he learned the game rapidly, and by the end of the week they
  were able to play competitively. He found himself looking forward to the
  games with increasing excitement.
  Chess enabled him to study his aunt up close. He and his brother, Palmer,
  had conducted countless, swornsecret, late-night conversations about her.
  They wondered about Vannie's men, about her occasional trips to Bournemouth
  or the South of France. And now, as she studied the board, he was able to
  stare at her, watch her every move.
  He examined her breasts whenever her eyes were occupied with the game
  board. He imagined kissing them, gently sucking on the soft nipples, which
  taunted him under every blouse and dress she wore. He imagined biting each
  nipple clean off.
  "You can't fool me the way you do all the others," Vannie told him during
  one of their tensest games. "I know that you're very clever, Will, and I
  know that you don't want us to know. But I know. I even know what you're
  thinking, dear boy."

 After six days, Will woke feeling a little bad about feeling so much better.
 He would have to get up, he knew, and the prospect of being able to play
 football again delighted him. But the times with Vannie would be over.
  There was a knock on his door around nine-thirty that
                   HIDE & SEEK   71

 morning. Palmer was already gone-Eleanor was taking him to the Regent's Park
 Zoo-and Will decided he would pretend to be sicker than he actually felt. He
 liked to pretend, to act, to see how good he was.
  "I'm awake," he said in a weak voice like Tiny Tim's in A Christmas Carol.
  "Come in, please."
  Vannie opened the door. She was wearing a gingham dress, cut tightly across
  her breasts. He noticed her breasts right away-every time.
  "I'm going to make eggs," she said. "Scrambled eggs. Could you assist in
  the eating thereof, Master Will?"
  "A little," he said, still playing Tiny Tim, acting his heart out. "Maybe
  a half portion."
  "I don't know if I'm up to cooking that much." She winked.
   Which finally got him to smile.
  Vannie called his smile scampish. He knew that she liked it. So he smiled
  for her. More acting on his part.
  "Just lie there. I'll bring breakfast to you, Master Will."
  Trembling, he watched her leave. She returned in a half hour, bearing
  scrambled eggs and mashed potatoes for them both, and sat on the bed next
  to him. Now that was extremely nice.
  Will felt as though he hadn't eaten properly in a month, but her nearness
  took away his appetite for food.
  "Still not hungry?" she asked, finishing her own portion. "Then how about
  one last game. For the championship of Fulham? You look recovered enough to
  play."
   "You're on. For the championship."
72   James Patterson

  "And what shall we play for, vannie? What is our championship worth?"
  I think I know what you want to play for. I think 1 know.
        CHAPTER 18

 VANNIE QUICKLY CLEARED away the dishes, and set up the board on his bed.
 "The smaller pieces in front, they're called pawns," she teased. "Please
 move any one of them, so I can begin to thrash you."
  Now he concentrated on the game. Her challenge had aroused his huge
  competitive spirit, and he was determined to win. He even forgot about her
  breasts, and the rest of her.
  The game was their best so far. It was incredibly close-closer, he knew,
  than Vannie had expected-but at the last minute, in a move he should have
  foreseen, she took his rook with a knight. She leaned back in smug
  satisfaction.
  "I'm afraid-checkmate, my darling, Mr. Competitive."
   "Oh, sod it!" Will roared and struck the game board
74   James Patterson

 in frustration. Pieces flew on the bed and across the floor and under the
 night table.
  "Typical loser. Typical man," Vannie said. "How do you think your opponents
  feel on the football pitch?"
  They both laughed. Then they scooted around the bedroom, picking up the
  scattered pieces: queen under the night table; knight somehow on top of the
  bureau; king underfoot on the imitation Oriental rug.
  On hands and knees, they reached for the king simultaneously. Will's elbow
  grazed the slick cloth of Vannie's dress; he could feel the warmth of her
  skin underneath. She didn't pull away. Neither did Will.
  Every sound, every tiny movement, suddenly became intensified in the
  bedroom. Electricity spiraled up his spine, and he could scarcely breathe.
  She wants me. I was right. I knew it.
  Vannie stared into his eyes for a long second. She actually stared at him.
  The room was so quiet. He was conscious of the staccato pounding of his
  heart, and was afraid she could hear it. He wanted to hear her heart.
  Without saying a word, Vannie's fingers gently traced Will's cheeks. Then,
  they trailed down over his throat, rode the lump of his Adam's apple. He
  gave a little moan.
  She leaned forward and kissed him softly. Then she nipped his unpuckered
  lips with her teeth. She wrapped her arms around him, pressing him against
  her breasts.
  Her tongue slid inside his mouth. Her tongue was inside him, and it was
  hard.
  "Dear, sweet boy," she whispered. "You are something else. You're very
  special, Will."
                   HIDE & SEEK   75

  Will's hands finally reached for her, tentatively at first, as though they
  themselves barely believed the miracle that was happening. Then more
  aggressively, up and down her surprisingly well muscled back, her soft
  face, her igeck, and then, blessedly, to those wondrous breasts. She wants
  me. Finally, someone does.
  "Not so fast," she whispered. "We have time, Master Will."
   "I know that. I've thought about this a lot."
  She smiled and her eyes opened wide with amusement. "You have, have you?"
  His hands slid down along the outside of her legs. Vannie's dress made a
  sound like light static in the air.
  She tugged at her own belt, then pulled him even closer. He didn't know
  what would happen next-what could happen?
  He was already taller than she by half a foot, and much stronger, though
  she was strong. Her hands slipped all over him, reaching down into his
  pajamas. Her dress fell away to the floor. How many hands did she have?
  Where had she learned all this?
  Will's face and neck were extremely hot-on fire; his ears were loudly
  ringing. His penis felt huge, and he rubbed against her bare flesh with a
  cry of utter joy. He wasn't sure what to do now, exactly where to go from
  here, but he would figure it out. He was smart, just as she suspected.
  Naked, Vannie lay on her back on the bed. She was holding herself open with
  her hands. Her cheeks were red, blushing, and he loved that look, would
  never forget it.
76   James Patterson

  "Now," she said, reaching for him. "Now would be a very good time, Will."
  She wanted it to happen. She wanted him as much as he wanted her.
  Will watched her face-studied her beautiful brown eyes; then her rising
  breasts; the luscious V of her legs and the dark hair at the center. He was
  so hard that he almost couldn't believe it was he. He felt stronger and
  more powerful than he ever had. Most important, he knew what to do with
  her. He just knew it. Naturally.
  "Don't rush it, Will," she whispered to him. "Take your time, young
  Master."
   "Don't worry. I don't want it to be over either."
  When it was, though, when they lay together, and she gently stroked his
  long blond hair, she said, "You're so very beautiful. You're going to be
  able to have anyone that you want." She smiled warmly. "You're quite irre-
  sistible, Will."
  This, Will already knew. He just wasn't sure what it meant.
   To be irresistible. Was that good, or was it very, very
 bad?.
        CHAPTER 19

 A LLAN "SKIPPER" THOMAS appeared to be an ordinary fellow, a tradesman
 perhaps, but Will understood that Thomas was the most important man he had
 met in his entire life.
  Thomas was in his early forties now, manager of the Hammersmith Rangers,
  but rumor had it he trained as hard as his players, and that he offered
  bonuses to any on the team who could go past him one-on-one. Rumor also had
  it that no bonus had ever been paid.
  He and Will were sitting like proper gentlemen in the living room of his
  aunts' house. Eleanor and Vannie had tactfully gone out, leaving the men to
  talk football, as men so love to do.
  "I've watched you play, Will," Thomas said, playing everything close to the
  vest, as Will had expected he would.
78   James Patterson

  "I'm honored to hear that, sir. I really am." Like hell. Every club in
  London had sent scouts to see him play.
  "You've got natural talent, no question about it. I could make you into a
  fine player, over time I could."
  Will watched Skipper Thomas calmly, the way Will did most everything. "I'm
  a fine player already, sir. You know it, or you wouldn't be here."
  "You're fifteen years old. Nobody is a player at that age, just a potential
  player."
   "I am," Will said.
   "And modest too," Thomas laughed heartily.
  "No, I'm not modest, sir. That would be false of me. But I am a goal
  scorer, sir. I have no particular sense of team, of anyone else on the
  field. I'm a loner, a striker pure and simple. I'm cut from the same cloth
  as Johan Cruyff, Pele, Gerd Mfiller. I'm the best at my age that England
  has ever seen. Fast as any pro, and stronger too. All the papers say so."
  Thomas smiled broadly at the audacity of this young Turk, but most of all,
  because he just might be right. "The local papers say so, Will."
  "And The Telegraph. And The Sun. Look, Mr. Skipper Thomas, why don't you
  just get on with it? You want me to play for you; I want to play for you.
  So cut through it. How much are you willing to pay, sir?"

 "Come on, Will, dribble past me. If you think you can. You're the next
 Cruyff, isn't that right?"
  Skipper Thomas and Will were the only ones who stayed on the pitch this
  late after practice. It was the same thing night after night, practice
  after practice.
                    HIDE & SEEK   79

 Thomas had never seen such maniacal desire in a player, even a young one.
 Will was indeed an incredible striker, a natural goal scorer.
 "What'll you give me if I do? What's in it for me?"
 "Twenty pounds," Skipper said and spat.
  Will laughed and walked away. He was bare-chested, shaking his long blond
  hair. "I wouldn't fuck your wife for twenty pounds."
  "All right. Fifty pounds. But you have to get right past me."
  Will turned back, took the challenge. Thomas tossed him the ball; Will
  trapped it with his feet. Real casuallike. Acting like a dumb, cocky little
  shit.
  Skipper Thomas crouched, but stayed on the balls of his feet. "Whenever
  you're ready, son."
   He was ready now, and he wasn't anyone's son.
  Will feinted left, quickly feinted right, headed directly at his coach and
  then, with fist toward the sky, middle finger raised in the universal
  gesture of contempt, glided past him as though Skipper Thomas's shoes were
  glued to the grass.
  "Keep your money," he said and laughed at the coach. "I won't need it where
  I'm going."

 Will played two years for the Rangers before his contract was bought by
 Liverpool, perennial champions of the English League's First Division, for
 one point five million pounds. He was already the biggest star in England.
 In his first year he was the League's leading scorer and was barely edged
 out as Footballer of the Year. He was nineteen years old.
80   James Patterson

  The papers glowingly wrote about his "great inner fierceness," his "uncanny
  ability to actually fly across the pitch." "He can swoop like a golden
  eagle, then fly off to his natural aerie-the opposition's goal," the
  Guardian said.
  "He is like a Blond Arrow-stretching toward the goal."
  "Will Shepherd is the complete egomaniac on the field; he has the
  consummate scorer's mentality. He plays as though he were alone out there."
  At nineteen, the Blond Arrow began to make the gossip columns as well. He
  was "fox hunting with friends in Gloucestershire," "grouse shooting on Lord
  Dunne's moor near Balmoral," "playing polo at Swinley Forest, in the
  presence of the Royal Family. The Blond Arrow cuts a dashing
  figure-wherever and with whomever."
  When he was twenty, Will led Liverpool to the League championship. He was
  arguably the biggest star in Europe. He was runner-up for FIFA's Best World
  Player award. "Frankly, Scarlett," he commented on the award, "I don't give
  a fuck what anyone thinks of my playing. I'll tell you whether I'm the best
  or not."
  During the same time, Will had been playing international football with the
  U.S. team. It was his stubborn attempt to keep some connection with
  America. He quickly tired of being a very good player on a team of donkeys.
  He quit the team, and thus all international play.
  The news stories rapidly became disturbing, and therefore much more
  interesting to the public. There were hints of alcohol abuse, of drugs, and
  worse. "Personal
                   HIDE & SEEK   81

 reasons" made him miss practices before games. Liverpool transferred him to
 an ambitious rival for two million pounds. In the off-season, Will began to
 drive Grand Prix race cars, an avocation forbidden by his contract. "If I
 live, it doesn't matter. If I die, it doesn't matter," he was quoted on the
 racing flap.
  The Blond Arrow was all the rage-absolutely irresistible.
        CHAPTER 20

  RRESITIBLE.
 ]Will drove Melanie Wellsfleet's supercharged red Ferrari sports car to her
 estate in Somerset. He got the new automobile up to over 115 at one point on
 the narrow, curvy road, and was seldom under ninety for the length of the
 trip.
  "It's not a bloody race car!" Melanie laughed and shouted during one
  harrowing stretch of high speed and danger.
  "It is now. With me at the wheel it is. Hang on, Mel. Ride of your life and
  all that."
  The estate in Somerset was everything Will had expected-and much, much
  more. The grounds seemed to have been tended with tweezers; the twenty-six
  rooms inside Ryertton Hall were like a Tudor museum.
  "My boss lives very well off my efforts," Will said to Melanie as she
  guided him through each of the nine
                   HIDE & SEEK   83

 bedrooms. Melanie was the thirty-one-year-old wife of Sir Charles
 Wellsfleet, who owned Will's football team, as well as a stable of
 racehorses and a well-respected publishing house. Charles Wellsfleet was
 sixty-nine years old.
  "Charles owned this house long before you made the scene," Melanie laughed,
  and gave Will a hug. They had been carrying on their secretive affair for
  the past four weeks. She couldn't get enough of Will, and was sure he felt
  the same way about her. He couldn't be faking that, the former high-fashion
  model reassured herself during an occasional "blue" moment.
  "I missed you, I want you, I need you," Melanie announced when they reached
  the master suite with its commanding view of a topiary garden and water
  terrace. "What do you need? What do you want?"
  He seemed bemused by the question. He wandered around the spacious suite,
  searching through Melanie's dresser drawers and her huge walk-in closet. He
  selected several dresses, evening gowns, lingerie, stockings, shoes, and
  laid them all out on the bed and floor.
  "May I ask what you're up to, Will?" Melanie pouted just a little. "I
  didn't know you had a fetish for my clothing.'-'
  "As a matter of fact, I do. Will you model for me? I've never seen you in
  any of these lovely getups. I'd very much like to."
  Melanie smiled. She loved his imagination, his games, his need to play. He
  wasn't another empty-headed player like so many others she'd sampled in the
  past. Will had also lived up to his reputation as a sensational lover.
84   James Patterson

 She now thoroughly understood this "Blond Arrow" business. She was obsessed
 with him, and couldn't imagine any healthy woman who wouldn't be. He was
 that damn good.
  She tried on Karl Lagerfeld evening dresses, a black dress by Jil Sander,
  sandals by Chloe. Will sat on the bed, gloriously naked, playing with
  himself, and watching her every move.
  She already knew that he could keep himself hard for hours. If he had a
  problem in the sack, it was climaxing. So far, he hadn't with her. It was
  something to look forward to, no?
  She was wearing a red gown and a lustrous pearl choker when she found that
  she couldn't stand it any longer. She scampered across the floor toward
  Will and his beautiful arrow.
  "Please, please, please me!" she laughed and swooned in a theatrical
  fashion. "Let me fall on your sword."
  Will didn't let her take off the Carolina Herrera, worth thousands of
  dollars. Not even her Ernesto Esposito pumps. He used the Hermes scarfs and
  nylons to tie Melanie to the bedposts. Then he made love to her for several
  hours. He helped her come so many times that he finally lost count. He
  didn't climax himself.
  Sir Charles Wellsfleet arrived at the estate in Somerset around eleven that
  evening. He'd had a frightfully long day of meetings in London, and
  expected to find Melanie asleep in the bedroom, as usual.
  His wife was wide-awake, however. Her eyes were like huge blue marbles, and
  she looked as though she had been sobbing for days. She was still tied to
  the
                   HIDE & SEEK   85

 bedposts with the scarfs and nylons, wearing nothing but the choker. Her
 face was puffy, but as pale as the pearls. The expensive Italian lingerie
 was strewn about the bed along with the shoes and the torn Herrera gown.
  That summer, Will was transferred from Sir Charles's team. The press
  suspected everything except the truth: Will had tired of Melanie. The Blond
  Arrow needed to move on to a much larger stage.
        CHAPTER 21

 ILL INVITED HIS brother, Palmer, to his Chelsea apartment one afternoon
 before the new season began. Though it was expensively furnished, the living
 space seemed sterile, almost as if no one lived there. A Maggie Bradford
 record played softly, soothingly, in the background.
  "I need your help," Will said, sipping the expensive brandy he had poured
  for them. Actually, it was his fourth or fifth brandy, and the third time
  he'd played the same record.
  Palmer looked at his brother, surprised. Will never seemed to need
  anything, from anyone. "How could I possibly help you, Will?"
  "I need a manager. I think you'd be perfect. I've thought about it a lot,
  actually."
   "A manager! I thought Jacob Golding did that."
   "He handles my business affairs. I mean a personal
                   HIDE & SEEK   87

 manager. Someone to look after me. Keep me out of trouble." I'm starting to
 scare myself,. brother. If you won't help me, then who will?
  "A bloody nursemaid, Will?" Palmer shook his head and laughed.
  Will shrugged. "If that's what you want to call it. Will you do it? The pay
  is awfully good."
  Palmer swallowed his brandy and stood up. "Not a chance, big brother."
   "Why? What are you doing now that's so important?"
  "As a matter of fact, I've got a good job in the marketing department of
  Cadbury's. But even if I were out of work, I wouldn't do it."
   Will smiled. "Because you hate me?"
  Palmer shook his head. His hair was blond, like his brother's, but cut
  short. "No. Because I hate living in your shadow. I don't hate you, Will.
  No one can hate you."
  "You won't help then? Even if I told you that I'm desperately unhappy? That
  I'm running on empty? That night after night I think of killing myself?"
  Palmer couldn't take his eyes off his fabulously handsome and successful
  brother. He sat down again. "Are you bloody serious, Will? Or are you
  play-acting again? Is this another of your mind games?"
  "Completely fucking serious. I want to kill myself right now. Even as we
  speak. Do I sound like I'm playing a mind game?"
  "My God," Palmer said. "I think you are serious. Or mad. Or quite possibly,
  both."
   "I'm no good," Will said. "No damn good. Never
88   James Patterson

 have been. You're the only one who can help me, Palmer. We have to stick
 together."
  Palmer stood, a strange, sad half smile on his face. "I'm sorry," he
  said. "I can't help you, Will. You'll have to find somebody else."
  Will watched his brother leave. He refilled his snifter with brandy and
  drank it in a gulp. "But who is there to find?" he whispered. "Who could
  there possibly be to really love me?"
        CHAPTER 22

 FACE THE MUSIC, Maggie. It's time to get to Will, to really talk about Will,
 to get it out once and for all. This is what everybody came to hear.
  People ask, especially reporters, how I could have fallen in love with
  Will? I always want to say-you would have too, in a millisecond. Don't kid
  yourself. That wasn't the way it happened though-not for me.
  But Will could be extremely charming. You have no idea! And I was extremely
  needy. I wanted to be loved more than anything else. I'd always wanted
  that. Doesn't everybody? Don't you?

 It happened like this, more or less anyway. This is the truth, and nothing
 but, so help me.
  I began my first European tour in London. It was tense, wild, but quite
  wonderful. The best of times. Jennie and I stayed at Claridge's. We went to
  the chang-
  90   James Patterson

 ing of the guard at Buckingham Palace, and saw The Mousetrap, Westminster
 Abbey, Big Ben. We were fantastic tourists together, and best friends. The
 two of us never shut up.
  I was to give two concerts in London. And I was the honored guest at a
  costume ball in Mayfair, admission 1000, all receipts given to the fight
  against children's cancer.
  The night of the charity party, I made a "grand entrance" into the living
  room of our hotel suite.
  "Mom, no! You're not going out in public like that!" Jennie said, and made
  a face as though she'd just had a sip of warm stout.
  I held a gold lame vizard, a costume ball mask, up to my eyes. I peered
  into the mirror and then doubled over with laughter. Jennie was right on.
  I was straining the seams of my stiff antique ball gown, and my breasts
  were exposed farther than I'd imagined. Sheesh.
  "Of course I'm going out like this. I think it's perfect. So would Barbara
  Cartland."
  "Who's Barbara Cartland? Your fancy dressmaker? The costume designer for
  Dracula?"
  "You don't know who Barbara Cartland is? Well, that proves you don't know
  anything about masquerades. You don't get a vote on this."
  Jennie rolled her eyes. She buried both hands in her long hair. "But who
  are you supposed to be? Don't leave me in such terrible suspense."
  "A queen in the court of Louis the Fourteenth. Who else?"
                   HIDE & SEEK   91

  Jennie giggled. She dropped down to the thick carpet and rolled over a few
  times.
  "You look more like a stripper. Sorry. Sorry. Just kidding, Mom."
   "You better be."
  Anyway, what difference did it make how I looked? It was all a dream,
  wasn't it? None of this could possibly be real. It was too good, and I was
  way too happy.
        CHAPTER 23

 THIS WAS SO not-me. That's why it was perfect. The grand ball was held in
 the home of Lord Trevelyan, a four-storied Georgian mansion lit for the
 evening by enormous searchlights placed on the roofs of the opposite
 buildings.
  When my car arrived, so did the black cab of a boisterous group
  impersonating the Bloomsbury literary crowd. They were dressed in knickers,
  suffragette blouses, and long puffed skirts, carrying dusty books and
  baskets of cut flowers. Jennie would have approved.
  I went inside with the Bloomsbury characters to find at least two hundred
  guests, all outfitted in an array of costumes from all centuries and walks
  of life, sipping champagne (a glass was quickly served me) and chatting the
  night away.
  Soon a trumpet sounded and the guests grew silent. Down the steps leading
  to the main foyer in which
                   HIDE & SEEK   93

 most of us were gathered came-Queen Elizabeth I! Her crown of rubies and
 sapphires glistened in the light; her dress, festooned with a thousand
 pearls, was as regal as its wearer. This is a dream, right? A neat dream
 though.
  The "Queen" was, of course, Lady Trevelyan, our hostess. "Supper is
  served," a butler announced, and we entered a magnificent dining room. We
  feasted on salmon, salads, cheeses, fresh fruits, and petit fours. After an
  hour or so, Lady Trevelyan rose and nodded to two footmen. The doors were
  swung open to the grand ballroom. Soon music started, a series of waltzes
  and fox-trots.
  A man strode toward me on the dance floor. I would have turned away, but it
  was crowded, and there was nowhere to go.
  He was dressed all in black, a hood over his head, a mask covering his
  face, so that only his eyes were visible. He had beautiful eyes, I couldn't
  help noticing. Something moved inside me. Strange.
  "You're Maggie Bradford," he said. "Please give me your jewels or I'll be
  forced to steal them."
  "You have the advantage," I said. "You know my name, but I don't know
  yours."
  He bowed and raised my hand to his lips. "I'm Raffles, the infamous thief,
  at your service. And I'd rather steal your heart than your jewels."
  I didn't look away from his eyes. "Then let me see your face. I don't let
  just anyone steal my heart."
  I didn't know what to make of him. Lots of men had tried to seduce me since
  I had become someone, but
94   James Patterson

 this was a new approach. Hi, I'd like to steal your jewels, or maybe, your
 heart.
  He bowed again, and with a single gesture removed his mask and hood.
  Before me, without any exaggeration, stood one of the most handsome men I
  had ever seen. His blond hair hung down to his shoulders, and his green
  eyes blazed with an all-consuming light. Music came into my head. His
  tanned skin announced that he spent a lot of time outdoors, but his face
  was unlined; he was still young. His smile-and he was smiling now-revealed
  perfect white teeth and the skin around his jaw was smooth and taut.
  "Raffles. Really? And what do they call you in the light of day?" I asked.
  "Will," he said, "Will Shepherd." He took a step back to study the effect
  his name had.
  It had no effect. I had never heard of him. "A nice name." I had noticed
  his accent. "You're American?"
  "By birth. I've spent most of my life in England. I resisted sounding like
  one of them. I'm stubborn sometimes. Most of the time."
  "And what do you do, Mr. Shepherd? Besides conduct highway robberies?"
  If possible, his smile grew even brighter. "I'm afraid that I play
  football. Or soccer, as you would call it. You could come someday to see me
  play."
  "I'd enjoy that. I guess I would. Although I should warn you, I'm not much
  of a sports fan."
   "Yet I'm an unabashed fan of yours," Will said.
                   HIDE & SEEK   95

  "I love your music," he went on. "The lyrics especially. You seem to
  understand."
  Suddenly he took me by the arm. "I play your songs all the time, Maggie
  Bradford. I want to take you home with me tonight. I'm telling you the
  truth. I want to make love to you. Let's get out of here. You know you want
  to."
  How could he say that to me? How could he? . . . You know you want to!
  "How dare you speak to me this way," I shouted over the music.
  I slapped him hard, and he stepped back, surprised. My voice must have
  reached the musicians, for they stopped in mid-melody. Everyone was staring
  at us.
  I didn't care. His touch on my arm was Phillip's touch; his words were
  Phillip's words.
  "If you had really listened to my songs, you'd know what I think of cheap
  come-ons," I said. My voice was shaking, my whole body was. "You've ruined
  this party for me. I don't give a damn if you're the best soccer and
  football player in the world. To me you're dirtcommon, filth, and if you
  ever dare speak to me again, I'll-" I was about to say-kill you.
  He had already moved away, so I didn't finish. I watched him-we all watched
  him-walk across the room to the door, his head held high, long hair
  flowing, his steps measured, manly, but absolutely revolting to me.
  I stood very still, fighting down embarrassment and rage. The music started
  again; people began to dance.
96   James Patterson

 Lady Trevelyan came up to me and gently touched the back of my hand.

  "I'm sorry," I blurted, and felt close to tears. "So sorry. I didn't mean
  to make a scene. I'm so sorry."
  "Don't even think about it," she said, her voice on the edge of laughter.
  "You gave Will Shepherd exactly what he deserved, and there isn't a woman
  in this room who isn't cheering for you right now." Finally, the hostess
  did laugh. "Of course, they'd all hop into bed with him given the chance.
  But bravo for you anyway."
BOOK TWO
Calm Before the
Storm
                                  
        CHAPTER 24

  T WAS ONE of the earliest court appointments-I
 gdon't remember which. All I know was that I was so o ad to be leaving
 prison for any reason, even just to travel back and forth to court.
  I felt that I was wearing my scarlet M, of course. I'm innocent, until
  proven guilty, but not in the minds of an awful lot of people, or so I've
  found. People who don't know me have already prejudged and condemned me.
  For some, I'm guilty of murder. For others, they assume that I must have
  slept around, though God knows, nothing could be farther from the truth.
  The worst hurt of all, the deepest wound, comes from those who judge me a
  bad mother. If they saw me for ten minutes with my children-if they asked
  my kids about their motherthey'd know how wrong they are.
   But I am prejudged. Women, I think, are guilty until
100   James Patterson

 proven innocent. And many of the worst accusers are other women. Why is
 that?
  So I wore my scarlet M to court that summer morning. I was just glad to be
  outside. The pollen count must have been high, since several people we
  passed on the streets were sneezing, and the parked cars were blanketed
  with a thin, green dust.
  The guards from the prison knew me, and liked me, and they tried to protect
  me from the inevitable crowds at the courthouse. A few of the "faithful,"
  "Maggie's mob," had brought their angry placards. "Maggie Is a Murderer"
  and "Husband Killer" and "Give Maggie a CHAIR, She Looks Tired From All
  That Killing."
  "Keep your head down, Maggie, and just follow us straight in," one of the
  guards told me.
  I had spent so much time inside, cut off from the world, that I wanted to
  look-but the guard was right. I dropped my head, even though it made me
  look guilty.
  The press was clever; they knew the best places to hide in wait at the
  courthouse. They trapped us on the way in, then they pounced.
  There was the usual barrage of insensitive questions. Microphones thrust at
  me-did they want me to sing? TV cameras staring with their large,
  unblinking eyes.
  A woman reporter with frazzled blond hair leaned in close over the
  restraining ropes at the side door. "Maggie! Over here, Maggie. Please?"
  she pleaded.
   My head rose involuntarily, my eyes went to hers.
  "What about Patrick?" she suddenly asked, a TV eye mercilessly staring
  behind her. "Did you murder him too? Did you, Maggie?"
                   HIDE & SEEK   101

 1 have never spit at a human being. I don't spit. Ever
 . . . but that morning I spat at that reporter. I don't know what possessed
 me.
  The TV camera caught it-the incident, the shot, was on every TV news
  program, played over and over again. An uncontrollable temper. The real
  Maggie Bradford?

  What about Patrick?
  Did you murder a third man, Maggie?

  Is anybody going to be surprised if you did?
CHAPTER 25

" CCOUNTANTS DON'T KNOW shit. So why in hell do we pay them a cent? Now there's
 some cost savings I could live with!"
  Thus spoke Patrick O'Malley, standing in the bathroom of the unfurnished
  Tower Suite of his unfinished, unnamed, unopened hotel on Sixty-fifth
  Street and Park Avenue.
  He was glaring at his accountant, his C.F.O., Maurice Freund. Freund had
  heard his boss's opinion of accountants before. "But we do know costs," he
  said, unruffled, "and you're costing yourself an unnecessary fortune."
  "Pears soap is necessary," O'Malley raged. "Porthault towels are necessary.
  A Jacuzzi in the Tower Suite bathroom is essential."
   Freund sighed and shrugged. "The good news is that
                   HIDE & SEEK   103

 every room is booked. The bad news is that we're losing money on every
 booking."
  "We'll refigure the damn rates. When you promise the best you deliver the
  best, and this hotel will be the best, goddamnit, or that soap goes right
  up your ass."
   "As long as it's Pears," Freund said, grinning.
   O'Malley grunted. "The construction's on schedule?"
  "Yup. Their schedule. Eight months late at an overrun of twenty percent."
   "That's still less than you estimated originally?"
   "Ten percent less."
  "Then take the soap and the towels from that ten percent."
  "No way." Freund took O'Malley's arm and steered him out of the suite
  toward the makeshift elevator. "Knowing you, there'll be overruns
  everywhere. The rates go up."
  If O'Malley had an opinion, he didn't express it. Rather, he said, "I know
  what to name the hotel."
   Good news, Freund thought.And about time. "What?"
   "I want to call it The Cornelia."
  "The Comelia. Splendid!" Freund knew his boss was watching his reaction
  closely, but his pleasure was genuine, his smile sincere. "That's good. The
  perfect choice, Patrick."
  "I don't believe a world-class hotel's ever been named after a woman."
  O'Malley sounded almost shy.
  "Then it's a unique name for a unique hotel. Besides, the time is right."
  "She was a unique woman," O'Malley said. "That's for certain. We can
  finally agree on something, Maurice."
104   James Patterson

  Freund took his hand and gravely shook it. The accountant actually seemed
  to have felt something. "The hotel's her testimonial. Your tribute to the
  one woman you loved."
        CHAPTER 26

 FOR TWENTY YEARS, Cornelia and Patrick O'Malley were one of New York's most
 courted and undeniably popular couples. Seeming opposites-he, the gruff,
 self-made entrepreneur who had parlayed a string of motels into a grand
 hotel chain in the United States, Europe, and Asia; she, the society beauty
 who outraged her family, the Whitings, by falling in love with, and then
 marrying, a Catholic who had not gone to Princeton-they were actually
 perfectly matched. Cornelia's cool tempered his heat; Patrick's passion
 aroused her own; and in the richest of rich skies in which they orbited like
 moons, no scandal was ever attached to them. Despite innumerable
 temptations, he remained faithful to her, and his support gave her strength.
 Beneath her regal demeanor she let herself grow soft and trusting-only for
 him, forever for him.
 Until forever was cut short by a glioblastoma that
106   James Patterson

 took her life in eighteen months, her spirit long before that, and he was
 left, at age fifty-four, with nothing except wealth, their rebellious son,
 Peter, and the tremendous sympathy of friends.

 Now he was building his most magnificent hotel around the shell of an
 antique mansion, much as Helmsley had done with the Palace. At completion,
 there would be four hundred rooms, including seventy suites, some with
 original marble from Witherspoon House. Guests would have a pick of styles:
 Renaissance Italian; eighteenthcentury French; ultramodern American.
  And in every room in The Comelia-O'Malley wondered why he had not settled
  on the name sooner as he envisioned the hotel-there would be Pears soap and
  Porthault towels. It was going to be a truly Grand Hotel, the way they used
  to build them in the best of times, before the invention of accountants.
  He spent the entire day at the hotel, meeting with Freund in the morning,
  personally directing the centimeter-by-centimeter polishing of the marble
  columns in the lobby, checking the seating and lighting in the Gold Bar,
  and then, at noon, meeting with the chief architect, Michael Hart.
  Their conversation lasted through lunch. Hart went through several crucial
  items, most important, the gilding of the Renaissance ornamentation of the
  main lobby and the filigree above the windows at the entrance on Lexington.
  Alone once more, O'Malley moved into the kitchen, at last hearing the
  sweetly satisfying racket of ham-
                     HIDE & SEEK   107

 mering and drilling-the stainless steel stoves, warming ovens, and counters
 were finally going in after a fourteen-week wait for materials. There were
 already enough copper pots, O'Malley noted with pleasure, to open the
 largest supply store in Manhattan.
  At seven-thirty, O'Malley found himself once again passing beneath the
  lobby's antique clock, a timepiece that had once adorned the Winter Palace
  of Catherine the Great.
  At the center of the hotel atrium in the rear of the lobby, an original
  Bernini fountain, imported from Rome, had been restored to its matchless
  splendor. That afternoon, plumbing had finally been completed by Timothy
  Sullivan of the Bronx Local 41, who called O'Malley to announce that all
  systems were go.
  "All ready for lift-off," O'Malley muttered, unlocking the knob that
  controlled the spigots and spray.
  The water rose in gentle bends and bows. O'Malley's face shone like a
  child's on Christmas Day. "Damn but that's fine," he said aloud in the
  deserted garden.
  But the spray had to go higher still, he considered as he studied the
  fountain. He turned the knob. The water remained at its level. It would
  never catch the afternoon sunlighx he thought. It was like the ejaculation
  of a ninety-year-old man.
  That bastard Sullivan. All systems go my ass! I'll fix it so he never
  ejaculates again.
  Already, Patrick O'Malley had made his first mental note for the next day.
   He passed under the lobby clock again, then stopped
108   James Patterson

 and checked his own watch. Eight-sixteen! The lobby clock was three
 minutes fast!
  He felt murder in his chest. "Slow down, Pat," he imagined Nellie's voice
  telling him. "Careful, careful." He didn't give a good, flying fuck about
  "careful." With incompetent kiss-asses all around him-and with Nellie
  gone-what good was living anyway?
        CHAPTER 27

 HEN JENNIE WAS thirteen and it was almost time for her to go to high school,
 I bought a beautiful house on Greenbriar Road in Bedford, New York. It was
 time for both of us to have a real home. More important, I wanted Jennie
 settled into a good school.
  I wanted stability, and peaceful surroundings, both for Jennie and myself.
  We picked out the house together. Both of us loved it, the sprawling
  grounds, and the town of Bedford. We finally had a home again.
  I was already infamous for being extremely selective about playing concerts
  and being on the road. I think I had my priorities straight, and my head
  screwed on as well. I'd never wanted to think of myself as a star, or live
  like one either. I vowed not to bring up Jennie that way.
   The years with Phillip had made me afraid of hoping
110   James Patterson

 for too much more than peacefulness and contentment in my life. It wasn't so
 bad, I kept telling myself.
  There was a wonderful school for Jennie in Bedford; we were less than an
  hour's drive from the city; I could have complete privacy when I needed it,
  and socialize if I felt like it. It seemed a perfect town for us, peaceful
  and enduring, the right place to erase the last vestiges of a still painful
  history.
  Jennie dubbed our house Shangri-la, la, la. Not to be spoken-to be sung.
  She had a good voice, and an even better sense of humor.

 Most nights were blissfully peaceful at our house. The noises were the
 singing of birds, the occasional yapping of a dog, sometimes the sound of a
 radio as teenagers drove by. The "cruising" cars reminded me of growing up
 in Newburgh, which was only thirty miles to the north.
  I was startled one evening in April to hear a pounding on the front door.
  I was expecting no one. As far as I knew, I was not in trouble with the
  police. Jennie was in her room doing her homework, and I hoped she was too
  young for a jilted boyfriend.
  I had been careful to keep my whereabouts unpublicized, so the intruder was
  almost surely neither a fan nor a rival. Someone knocking on the wrong
  door? Probably.
  Curious, and a little nervous, I went to the door. Through the peephole, I
  could see a man, his body distorted by the glass. He was in a rumpled suit
  but well dressed, his tie askew, his hair uncombed, his face
                   HIDE & SEEK   111

 apoplectic. I sensed he was harmless enough, and opened the door.
  "Mrs. Bradford?" he said, somehow managing to sound exasperated.
   "Yes. Can I help you? How did you know my name?"
  "There's a BRADFORD on your mailbox. A deduction."
  "There's a bell on the door. Why not use that instead of pounding?"
  "There is?" He seemed genuinely surprised. "I guess I was so angry I didn't
  notice. Sorry about that."
  His anger had evidently evaporated. There was definitely no danger in him.
  I invited him in. "What's this about?"
  He followed me down the foyer to the living room. "If I built hotels the
  way GM builds cars, I'd be crucified. Yet those shitkickers-"
   Ah. That was the explanation. "It's your car, then?"
  "A brand-new Mercedes convertible. Not a thousand miles on the useless
  rattletrap. And here I am, exhausted, minding my own business, happy to be
  off the highway, when the son of a bitch dies. I mean dies. No warning, not
  even a death rattle. The mother just says to me, `Fuck you, Pat,' and
  quits. And do I have a car phone? Of course not. If I had one, I'd use it,
  and I like the driving time for thinking and enjoying myself in blessed
  peace. The only reason for a phone is in case the car has a breakdown, and
  is a brand-new, eighty-thousanddollar car going to cause trouble? No way.
  Ha!" Suddenly he stopped and grinned. His smile reminded me of Paul
  Newman's-a lot. "So can I use your phone?
112   James Patterson

 I may be the only Irish Catholic who's a member of AAA and not AA."
  "Sure thing," I said, hiding a smile. He was funny, and the humor was
  contagious, at least it was that night. "The phone's in the den. What were
  you doing on Greenbriar at this time of night?"
  "I live on Greenbriar. About three miles further down. You must have passed
  my house a thousand times going to the village. My name's O'Malley. It's
  the oversized Georgian. I live in it to impress my friends."
  I knew the house, or more accurately, the estate. It was one of the
  grandest on Greenbriar. "You said hotels. Then you must be-"
  "Patrick O'Malley. I'm building one on Park Avenue. The Cornelia. Do you
  like the name? Say yes, and you'll be its first guest as my guest."
  This time I couldn't suppress the laugh. "Yes. I might take you up on it.
  Would you like a drink, Mr. O'Malley?"
  He bowed. "You're very, very kind and understanding. Scotch if you have it.
  Neat."
  I showed him to the den, then went to the kitchen to fix a drink. There
  really was something about this poor/ rich blitzed man that struck me as
  funny. The look on his face was classic silent-movie comedy. He had star
  quality.
  I didn't get a lot of visitors, besides music-business people, into my
  safe, comfortable, closed world. I was getting good at pretending that I
  liked it that way. I didn't like it at all.
   I poured a Scotch, and went back to the den, knocking
                   HIDE & SEEK   113

 gently before entering. I stepped inside the room, then stopped and began to
 laugh out loud. I couldn't help myself.
  Patrick O'Malley had taken off his rumpled suit jacket and hung it
  carefully over the back of a chair. He had removed his black cordovans and
  put them neatly beside the jacket.
  He lay stretched out on my old, flowered sofa, and he was fast asleep.
CHAPTER 28

 WOKE UP early, but Patrick was gone by the time I went downstairs. Jen and
 I did a three-mile run, then
  a power drink, and off to school for her. I went into my den and began
  working, lost in the lyrics of "A Lady Hard as Love."
  Around ten-thirty, I walked to the riding stables, noticing that the day
  had assumed the gauzy look of life shot through a telephoto lens. I felt
  content. Not a great feeling, but not so bad either. Something was missing
  from life, but I certainly had a lot, and no complaints.
  A florist truck came bumping up the drive and a boy with spiked orange hair
  and Coke-bottle glasses came hurrying toward me, bearing an arrangement of
  freesias and decorative ribbons.
  There was a note. O'Malley, I thought, pleased for some reason.
                   HIDE & SEEK   115

  Dear Margaret Bradford,
  Forgive me for not having immediately recognized your name, but the only
  singers I've heard of are the Clancy Brothers.
  I don't know for certain if I can face you again. Not after last night.
  But I'm going to try. Give it my best.
  Will you please have dinner with me some evening this week? Let me try
  to make amends.
  You have the most beautiful blue eyes I've ever seen, and I will spend
  the time between now and our dinner listening to Maggie Bradford records
  until I've memorized your songs. The Mortified Sleeper (your neighbor),
  Patrick

  My eyes were chestnut brown, and I had a feeling that Patrick O'Malley
  knew it, and knew I knew he knew it.
  Dinner? Why not? I needed to meet more people in Bedford. I left a
  message on his machine making a date for Thursday night.
   Blue eyes-that's Sinatra, not me.
        CHAPTER 29

 THURSDAY WAS AN unexpected and unqualified hit. He made me laugh-a lot. He
 had stories weaved inside of stories, weaved into still more stories. He had
 a wonderfully warm smile, and a generous nature. I knew I'd made my first
 friend in Bedford, and it felt good.
  Over the next few weeks, I saw Patrick several times. I enjoyed his odd,
  wry, but honest sense of humor; his unique comic timing; his
  oversentimental but nevertheless touching stories about growing up in an
  Irish family of ten; his thrill at putting up his parents in the honeymoon
  suite of his first grand hotel.
  In deference to his globetrotting, I began to call Patrick names that
  amused him: Padriac, Patrice, and Patrizio. But Patrick had no silly names
  for me. Sometimes he called me Margaret, the first person to do that since
  my mother.
                   HIDE & SEEK   117

  "My first love," Patrick told me, "was actually the sea. It's the one
  powerful image that I still have of Ireland, and when I was growing up
  there."
  Patrick had a modest sailboat, and one weekday morning we took it out on
  the Sound. Patrick played hooky from his hotel project; I could afford one
  morning away from the piano, and my own rituals.
  Soon, we were out on the water, and I found that I loved it too. Since it
  was early on a weekday, there weren't many other boats out, even though the
  day was in the low seventies, with clear blue skies. I could see heavy
  traffic as we slid away from shore, and watching the cars heading to work
  reminded me of how lucky I was.
  "There but for the grace of God," Patrick said and saluted the commuters.
  "Suckers!" he shouted into the sea breeze and laughed. He wasn't being
  mean, just playful.
  He and Jennie had obviously conspired, since he'd smuggled some of my power
  drink onboard, and had made me my usual breakfast. He even joined me for
  the special mixture of several fruit juices and vitamins.
  "So are you finally over the bastard, Maggie?" he asked as we sipped juice.
  As usual, he was spontaneous and himself. I understood that he meant
  Phillip, who we'd talked about before, but not very much.
  "Yes and no," I told Patrick the truth. I felt that I could.
  "I think I know what you mean." He gave me a hug with one arm as the two of
  us stood staring out over the oncoming breakers.
118   James Patterson

  "Sorry I don't have any good advice for you," he said. "I never shot any
  bastards, though several I know deserved it. Is it all right if I make this
  light-it's my way, you know."
  I nodded. It was Patrick's style to be able to joke when things got
  particularly dark. He made me laugh constantly, and I liked it a lot.
   "He was a bastard, and I'm sorry I married him."
  Patrick waved his free arm angrily. "Awww, he just took advantage. You were
  very young, and not so long out of your aunt's house. He did his fine
  officer's act, made his lofty promises, lied to you. I know, let's sail
  north to West Point. We'll dig up his grave, then we'll pulverize the
  bones."
  I shook my head, but I was smiling. "You make me laugh."
   "It's my job. It's what I'm good at."
   I looked at him. "What do you think I'm good at?"
  He gestured with both hands. "Oh, everything. Everything that I've seen at
  least. You're closing yourself off a little-that's the only area for
  improvement that I can see."
   "You're funny, and you can be very sweet."
   "You think so?" he asked.
   "Yes, I do. I definitely believe that. I'm sure of it."
  "Well good, there's an object lesson, 'cause I'm not ten percent as sweet
  as you. The way you talk, the way you think, raise your beautiful girl,
  Jennie, what comes out in your songs. That's why your music's so popular,
  don't you know it?"
   "I do-"
                   HIDE & SEEK   119

 "I know-and you don't. I have a favor, a big favor." I tensed a little.
  Patrick winced. "See what he did to you, sweet Maggie? I hate it when
  you're afraid. That reflex. Your back is like a washboard."
   "I'm getting better," I said.
  "I know that you are. Now don't clutch. Here's the favor. It's the most
  wonderful thing I can imagine."
  I couldn't imagine. I wasn't tense anymore-Patrick had made me
  comfortable-but I couldn't figure where he was heading with this.
  "All right," I finally said, "I'll do anything. That's how much I trust
  you."
  "Excellent. The best words I've heard you speak so far. Now what I'd like,
  Maggie, what I'd love-would you sing me one of your songs. Any song of your
  choosing. Right here, just the two of us, would you softly sing a beautiful
  song just for me?"
   It was a beautiful request, and I sang for Patrick.
        CHAPTER 30

 0NE NIGHT, IT must have been a week or so later, I had a light dinner with
 Jennie. Around eight, I drove her to her friend Millie's house where she was
 having a sleep-over. Then, I went to Patrick's house for a second meal.
  Patrick had excused his "chief cook and bottlewasher" for the evening. He
  said that he wanted to do the honors: roasted lobster with garlic butter,
  thickly sliced and crisped french fries, succulent corn on the cob. A
  simple, satisfying feast.
  After dinner, we took a walk on the grounds to a grove of apple trees at
  the far end of his estate. There Patrick slid his arm around me and gently
  kissed the top of my head.
   "You smell like orange blossoms. How is that?"
  "More like No More Tears shampoo from Johnson and Johnson."
                    HIDE & SEEK   121

  "Whatever. You smell wonderful." He kissed both my cheeks, then my
  forehead, my nose, the tip of my chin. He kissed me on the lips, and I felt
  his tongue touch mine.
  I pulled away. We had kissed before, though I had never really felt his
  passion; I always drew back. Tonight was different. He kisses absolutely
  beautifully, I thought. 1 just felt his heart and I like the feeling.
  I felt safe with him. The night wind whispered softly through the grove of
  trees. He kissed me again, and this time I could feel myself responding.
  I can't shut myself off any longer. I can't spend my life afraid, even if
  I am.
  "Let's go inside," Patrick said. "I slept at your house once. In the den,
  and without your permission, as you constantly remind me. Will you sleep at
  my house tonight?"
  I turned my body into his, smiling at the two of us. For once, I was happy
  about one of Jennie's sleep-overs. "Not in the den, I hope."
  I could feel him grow hard against me. "No," he whispered. "Come with me.
  Please. Trust me."
  My reluctance must have been stronger than I imagined, for he had surely
  sensed it. Trust him. Oh, how I wanted to, yet as we turned toward the
  house I could see Phillip's face, feel the menace of him. I shuddered
  involuntarily. Damn him. We should have pulverized the bones.
  "We don't have to," Patrick said, reading my fear. "I don't know everything
  that happened to you long ago, but we can wait. You're the first woman
  who's meant
122   James Patterson

 anything to me in a while. But I want this to be exactly right for both of
 us."
  He was the most considerate and loving man. I did trust him.
  "I want to," I said, conscious of how tight my throat felt, how cold my
  skin. "I do, Patrick. Let's go inside."
         CHAPTER 31

 '  E WERE UNUSUALLY quiet as we slowly
  undressed in Patrick's sprawling, moonlit upstairs
  bedroom. In the spun-out silence the beat of my
 heart was electric, loudly amplified. All sorts of questions
 and self-doubts began circulating through my head. I'm
 too tall  for him. He won't like me once he really gets to
 know me. Do 1 know enough about him? Relax, Maggie.
 Please,  just relax.
  He looked wonderful in the moonlight. Hard, working-man's stomach.
  Well-muscled legs. Broad chest lightly covered with silver and light-brown
  hair. Sexy, I thought, and I liked what I was feeling.
  Open yourself up to him, Maggie. Don't be afraid. This time it's right.
  He held me in his arms for the quietest moment, kissing my hair and my
  neck. He held me as we stood
124   James Patterson

 before the moonlit window and waited for me to relax. I sensed that he was
 willing to wait for a long, long time.
  He kissed me again, and I had the feeling that we were falling toward each
  other. He kissed my cheeks, my forehead, my nose, then both my eyes. Soft,
  lingering kisses. Finally, I began to kiss him back. I kissed his cheeks,
  his forehead, his eyes. I continued to fall toward him, at least I had that
  sense.
  "Dear sweet Maggie," he whispered. He knew that I was still a little
  afraid. He always knew what I was feeling. He was wise, intelligent, but he
  never showed off, never seemed impressed with himself.
  "You are such a lovely and special woman. I adore you, Maggie."
  It was Patrick's voice, Patrick's arms, and as he lifted me up and carried
  me to the massive bed, I felt a release, as though he had severed the
  invisible chains that had held me captive. This was such a sweet, slow
  dance. It was so new for me-either forgotten, or never experienced. He took
  his time, and then entered me gently, carefully.
  From a fragile place inside me, a place forgotten, pleasure rippled through
  me, and I shivered. I felt a deep, warm sensation flowing, spreading,
  rushing out. It was a feeling that had been missing for so long. And it
  went on and on that night.
  "Gentle Patrick," I said finally, and I didn't think I would ever stop
  smiling. I touched his face once again.
                   HIDE & SEEK   125

 He was smiling too. "You're so good for me. You're so good, period."
  "It will be better and better," he said. "Trust me." Then he whispered,
  "Trust us. "
   I did. Finally, I trusted someone again.
        CHAPTER 32

 WILL SHEPHERD SHOULD have felt at the absolute top of the world, but somehow
 he didn't. He was certainly famous, and filthy rich, but he hated it. That
 night, he was also dangerously high. The werewolf of London, he thought.
 Beware.
  The cocaine he'd taken as the concert began, and again immediately before
  the appearance of Maggie Bradford, made him feel all-powerful. And why the
  hell not? He was a star not only on the football field, but also among the
  elite attending the special performance at Albert Hall.
  Will looked around, grinning, waving. Pete Townsend was there, and Sting,
  and Mick Jagger-a new rock group: the Hasbeens-along with Rupert Murdoch
  and Margaret Thatcher, the two people currently destroying England.
  They had come to hear Maggie Bradford soothe their tortured souls. Her
  ballads did that to people. Her songs
                   HIDE & SEEK   127

 were rare, a miracle actually-strong melody, lyric, and mesmerizing. No
 singer put so many different emotions into one song-all of her songs
 imitated the dizzying complexity of modern life, or so it seemed to Will.
  She came onstage to loud, adoring applause, and yet she seemed so shy.
  Tickets had been sold out for months. She sat at the piano . . . and simply
  began to sing.
  Will had no memory of the scene at Lady Trevelyan's party, and so he looked
  at her with a fresh eye. There was her long, flowing blond hair. And the
  simple beauty of her face.
  But she seemed to glow on this particular night. He wondered why? What was
  her secret? What had this woman learned that he hadn't?
  Her voice wasn't large or particularly dramatic; there was no melodrama in
  her style. She sang with a purity that pierced his heart like a sword, and
  he could actually feel the pain as well as the honest beauty of her music.
  She was singing about the sadness of lost dreams, about a fall from grace.
  Will felt she was singing about him.
  Tears rolled down his cheeks. The music moved him in ways he couldn't
  understand, but it was as though a great light were embracing him from the
  stage, and then transporting him from the concert hall into a place for
  only the two of them. What the hell am I thinking? he wondered. He was
  tempted to laugh at himself. He felt like such a damn fool.
  God how he loved the sound of her voice though. He could listen to it for
  the rest of his life.
128   James Patterson

  He had the strange, haunting feeling that Maggie Bradford could save him
  from himself.

 "Did you forget I was with you in there? You did, didn't you, Will? You
 bastard!"
  Will looked at the slender, dark-haired woman who was holding on to his arm
  as he left the concert hall. He had forgotten about her-hadn't a clue who
  the hell the beautiful woman behind the dark glasses was. Ah, the werewolf
  strikes again!
  She was stunning, but they all were. Model? Actress? Would-be-actress?
  Shopgirl? Where the hell had he met her? Christ, this was embarrassing-even
  for him it was a new low.
  "So, how long have you been getting this royally fucked-up on coke? You
  have, haven't you? Can you play like this?"
  Ahhh, Will sighed with relief. Reporter! Now he remembered who the hell she
  was. She was the Times. She wanted to do a piece on him. He wanted a piece
  of her. Fair trade.
  He recovered his poise, and immediately went into one of his best Prince
  Charming acts. He could, he knew, fool the pants off any of them. Even a
  Times reporter.
  "No, it wasn't drugs, Cynthia," he said. Cynthia Miller! That was her name.
  He was so proud of himself. "I love her songs. I really do."
  "So you said on the way over. Your car is full of her tapes."
  "Her music is so damn real, comes right out of her life," Will continued.
  "Do you like it much yourself?"
                   HIDE & SEEK   129

  "As I told you, on the way over, I do like her music, indeed. I also
  enjoyed the concert, but maybe not as much as you did."
  Will pecked her on the cheek-gently, very chastely. "Now what shall we do?"
  he asked. Careful, Will. She's a reporter.
  Cynthia Miller smiled a sly grin. "I'd like to hear more about the Blond
  Arrow," she said. She was typical of most reporters, an incredible cynic,
  a romantic gone bad.
  "Would you like to see it?" Will teased. He added a twinkling smile.
  He knew that she did. All of them did-except maybe one.
 Maggie Bradford! That's who he wanted, he needed-
 a real person to understand and challenge him.
CHAPTER 33

THE DOORBELL RANG, and Will stopped reading the morning newspaper. He peered
out the window. A showy, silver-blue Rolls-Royce was parked in his driveway.
He could hear his maid greeting the newcomer, then footsteps approaching the
living room.
 "Mr. Shepherd, Mr. Lawrence."
  At the entrance stood a smiling, sandy-haired man, perhaps ten years older
  than Will. Will knew who Winifred "Winnie" Lawrence was. The man was a
  major force behind the development of soccer in the United States, a man
  determined to bring the beauty and grace of this refined sport to a nation
  overdosed on American football mayhem. Lawrence was a lawyer, an agent, but
  most of all, a hustler par excellence.
  Will waited in his chair until Lawrence had entered the room; then he got
  up slowly, uncoiling as though from a nap, and shook hands with the
  American. Like so
                   HIDE & SEEK   131

 many people from his country, their country Lawrence skipped preamble and
 pretense, and got right into it. Cut to the chase.
  "Tell me, Will, why do you think the Germans remain so powerful a threat to
  win the Cup?" Lawrence said, his smile seemingly pasted across his face.
  "Year after year, no matter their personnel, they seem to have a powerhouse
  team."
  It was actually a question Will had often asked himself. "Discipline, I
  suppose," he said. "It's more their team style than any individual, and
  that makes them strong."
  Lawrence beamed, reveling in the obvious, as Americans so often do. "It's
  a style I've incorporated into the American team. But we need world-class
  individuals as well. We need a scorer, a striker."
   "I figured that's why you came here."
  "Yes, that's right. I've come to persuade you to play for the United
  States. I will not leave your house until I do."
  Will laughed at the idea, not to mention Lawrence's gall. "It'll take some
  doing. There's no way America can compete, with or without me. Why should
  I do all that training just to go out in the qualifying rounds? What am I
  too dim to see?"
  Lawrence reached into a stuffed briefcase and withdrew a computer sheet,
  spreading it out on the living room table. The two men bent over it.
  "Look here, Will. Suspend your disbelief for just a few moments. Look.
  CONCACAR Zone Norte. Zone
132   James Patterson

 Centro. Zone del Caribe. The official schedule for the American team in the
 North Zone qualifiers."
 "So what?"
  "Don't you see? Let me help you then. The Americans don't have to beat
  anybody worthwhile. Not until they're into the final twenty-four."
  Will laughed again. He enjoyed Lawrence's first-class act, but this was
  simply too much. "Maybe you haven't heard, Mr. Lawrence, Winnie, but the
  American team isn't considered anybody either. Any national team will be
  absolutely thrilled to play the United States. They'd think the game would
  be a complete walkover."
  "And that's to our advantage!" Lawrence put his arm around Will's shoulder.
  Actually, he was rather a good salesman, the great American huckster. Very
  compelling in his way. "We'll have the benefit of surprise. What if I tell
  you that Wolf Obermeier has agreed to coach the American team?"
  Obermeier had coached championship teams in his native Germany and in
  Argentina. He had the reputation of having one of the most brilliant minds
  in footballand the harshest tongue.
  "I'd be somewhat impressed," Will granted. "At least now you've gotten my
  attention. Tell me more, Mr. Lawrence. Maybe I need a challenge right now."
  "Or a crowning achievement?" the American said, and grinned.
        CHAPTER 34

 "  RY TO IMAGINE the World Series, the Super
   Bowl, the Kentucky Derby, and the Democratic
   and Republican Conventions all rolled into one great event," wrote
   Mickey Trevor Jr. in the popular American magazine Sports Illustrated.

  Then you have some small idea of the power and glory of the World Cup.
  Next imagine Rio de Janeiro, where soccer may be more important than sex
  and the samba, and the World Cup makes Mardi Gras seem like a Girl Scout
  jamboree.
  That's where the World Cup final will be played.
  And now think of the two teams matched in that final: heavy favorite
  Brazil, three-time previous winner of the cup, whose lineage is
134   James Patterson

  as impressive as the New York Yankees-and upstart, unheralded, pipsqueak
  America, the miracle men in the red, white, and blue, whose rise from
  nonentity to heroic challenger has all the elements of a classic fairy
  tale-only, miraculously and unbelievably, it is true.
  Folks, this here is a fairy story to rank with "The Lion King"! You may not
  have taken much notice when America quietly won the North Zone qualifying
  tournament, thus reaching the World Cup finals. It might have quickened
  your pulse a bit when our boys made it past the qualifying round, with only
  a loss to Germany to mar their record. Good for us, good for my kids, who
  love soccer because they play it in school, you probably figured, but
  that's the end. It's all over. And so you turned your attention back to the
  pennant races, and the wonderful baseball season of Barry Bonds, still a
  bit puzzled as to why the rest of the world takes soccer so damn seriously,
  and meanwhile, our team edged past Nigeria into the last eight.
  But when the U.S. beat Italy-Italy!-in the quarterfinals (the score was
  3-2, and each of the American goals was scored by America's star of stars,
  Will Shepherd) and then edged Germany 2-11 in the semis, surely your atten-
  tion returned, and by now if your temperature isn't boiling, if your heart
  isn't pounding, if you haven't canceled all plans for Sunday night so you
  can stay home to watch the final, then you're
                   HIDE & SEEK   135

  not an American, you don't like sports-or you're dead.
  The American team has Will Shepherd and ten other guys who probably
  couldn't make the starting lineups of any of the leading clubs in the
  competition.
    But Shepherd. Ah, Shepherd!
  Soccer is a team sport, but even Wolf Obermeier, the U.S.A. coach,
  admits that in this case Will Shepherd is the team. "Without Will, we
  wouldn't have qualified," Obermeier said. "With him-well, look where we
  are now. Look where we are."

 "Bravo! My congratulations to Sports Illustrated! Finally something of
 value, beyond their beloved swimsuit issue!"
  Will finished the article and grunted with satisfaction."Shepherd is the
  team," he said. "Has a nice ring to it. Accurate reporting for a change
  too. Bravo!"
  "I read it while you were asleep," Victoria Lansdowne said. The leggy
  British actress was sprawled luxuriously on top of the covers. Her
  striking, cobalt-blue eyes admired the physique of the man she had met for
  the first time the evening before. The Blond Arrow. Right now, the most
  famous athlete in the world
  Despite the air-conditioning in the Rio Hilton, the suite was hot, and
  neither of them had put on any clothes after a long bout of sex. They
  looked every bit as good as their starry reputations suggested. The sheen
  of sweat glistened on their beautiful bodies.
136   James Patterson

 "What did you think of it? Just another puff piece?" "I think that if you
 play football as well as you do certain other things, you'll beat the living
 doo-doo out of Brazil tomorrow."
 He smiled. "Satisfied, I take it."
  "Never. Not even close, sweet thing. I'm insatiable. Don't you read the
  papers? My `string of lovers."'
  He looked at her full breasts, the slender, very tan legs that had spread
  for him so willingly, yet seemed to have a mind of their own. She reminded
  him of Vannie. Many of them did. Maybe that was why he was beginning to
  feel a touch angry at vainglorious Victoria.
  "Want another go . . . on goal, so to speak?" Victoria had followed his
  gaze down and along her body. She reveled in the power she held over
  supposedly strong and powerful men. This one was different though. He was
  smarter than she'd expected him to be.
  "I don't think so. Maybe your `string' has finally ended here," he said,
  returning her dazzling smile.
  "What's the matter? No more arrows in our quiver? Are we fresh out of joy
  juice?"
  Will fought down the rage, forcing himself to laugh. "There's a game
  tomorrow, a rather important game. Maybe you've heard? You say you read the
  papers, dear Vic."
  "And sweet Lambkins wants to get up for that, but not for me?"
   "Don't," he said. He'd warned her at least.
  "Don't what?" she taunted him. "Tempt you?" She wet a finger with her
  tongue, and placed it between her legs. "If you can't do it, I suppose I'll
  have to do it
                   HIDE & SEEK  137

 myself. Now here's a juicy picture for the tabloids. Victoria does herself!
 Will not able?"
  With a roar, Will was on her, all over her. Victoria woofed out air.
  "Oh," she gasped. "Oh God, that hurts. That hurts." Victoria Lansdowne
  tried to push him off, but he pinned her hands to her sides. "Please, dear
  Jesus, stop! Please, please, I'm begging you, Will! Stop it. I'm serious,
  stop."
   But there was nothing that could stop the Blond Arrow.
CHAPTER 35

IN THE AFTERNOON of the World Cup final the heat soared to ninety-three
degrees on the sugary, white sand beaches of Copacabana and Ipanema. For a
while, it was a quiet day, a national holiday in celebration of the World
Cup. Rich and poor alike rested, saving their energy for the most popular
sporting event in the world.
  Then, suddenly, day melted into swarming, junglehot night. All of Rio de
  Janeiro seemed to pour outdoors to witness, and participate in, the
  national game of "futebol."
  The wide avenues of the South American city became a raucous and dangerous
  carnival. Auto horns honked out Bra-sil! Bra-sil! Along the Avenida Brasil
  and Castello Branco, university students defiantly wrapped themselves in
  the national flag. All buses and taxis were decorated with bright-colored
  streamers. Women danced
                   HIDE & SEEK   139

 impromptu in the streets, blouses clinging to their breasts, skirts swirling
 like hoops.
  By seven o'clock, the crowd had converged on Rio's legendary Maracana
  Stadium, police letting no one in without a ticket, though hundreds eluded
  them and entered the stadium to find what sight lines they could.
  Inside, a hundred thousand frenzied Cariocas, waving multicolored banners
  and placards proclaiming sports victory and social revolution, let out
  cheers in cadence with the rhythm of ten thousand samba drums, and twice
  that many boom boxes.
  At the end of a rampway, standing with the rest of his team amid the
  deafening noise, Will listened.
  He could hear his own heart beat against the walls of his chest. He could
  hear . . .
  "Numero nueve . . . De America . . . Will . . . Shepherd!" came from the
  loudspeaker.
  There were drawn-out boos at the announcement, shouts of palhaco, "clown."
  But even in Rio, there were cheers for Will Shepherd. Some in the crowd
  treasured artistry over partisanship, and Will's achievements were art. A
  quartet of shirtless men ran out onto the field. Each had the numeral nine
  painted on his chest.
  The cheers continued as Will raced onto the field, his fist held high above
  his flying blond curls. His head was filled with sound and images,
  fantasies and dreams. He could hardly breathe.
  He felt The Thrill travel through every part of his body.
140   James Patterson

 No one could stop him tonight.
  He was going to make sports history in front of half the world. No one
  would ever forget him after this special night in Rio.
        CHAPTER 36

 AT 8:32, THE Colombian referee set the ball down on a bent tuft of grass.
 Brazil versus America! Unthinkable, unpopular, impossible, and yet it was
 happening.
 The World Cup final had begun!
  Axturo Ribeiro, the mercurial nineteen-year-old Brazilian star, swept up
  the ball, passed it to a teammate in a play practiced for hours in the
  preceding months, and raced forward in a brilliant, weaving dance. The ball
  was sent back to him. His back to the goal, he cartwheeled and sent the
  ball flying toward the American net.
  The fans exploded.
  "Gooool de Bra-sill " the PA announcer screamed. "Gooool de Arturo
  Ribeiro!"
   Time elapsed: thirty-three seconds.
142   James Patterson

 Less than six minutes later, Brazil scored again. Easily, effortlessly it
 seemed.
  Cariocas danced in the stands and let loose black snakes and plucked
  chickens from hidden baskets. Outside the stadium, flares burst in the
  night sky; handguns were fired into the air; police sirens wailed on and on
  as though the long-awaited revolution had arrived.
  One would have thought no greater rejoicing was possible. But the
  celebration of Brazil's second goal was muted, compared to the reaction
  when Ribeiro scored again in the thirty-third minute of play.
   Brazil led 3-0 at half-time!
  The game was looking like a rout . . . no, it was a full-scale massacre.

 Listen to this pompous asshole, Will was thinking as he sat with his head
 hung low in the visitors' locker area.
  "You play as if you are drugged," Wolf Obermeier said. He had already
  berated his other so-called players, and now he was speaking quietly to
  Will, whom he had drawn aside as the team left the dressing room to begin
  the second half. "Something is troubling you? Are you drugged?"
  "Maybe." Will smiled at the overserious German's consternation. Truthfully,
  he didn't know what was wrong. He felt refreshed after last night, blurred
  though the memory of it was; no, it was something else holding him back. He
  shrugged at the German. Whatever it was, The Thrill had passed through him
  like a thunderbolt, and he could not recapture it. He felt sullen and slow.
                   HIDE & SEEK   143

  "We need you to become a madman," Obermeier went on. "Three goals.
  Absolutely impossible to make up. But I've seen you do the impossible. This
  is not the time to play the worst game of your life-you must be hero, not
  goat." He patted Will on the head, father to son. "Show me you are a man."
  A man. Will walked onto the field in total shock. You're in the World Cup
  championship, and you're playing like you're still in Fulham. These are the
  Brazilians. The best in the world. If you beat them, you'll be famous
  forever. Obermeier's right. Be a man.
  He took a deep breath and trotted toward the bench. He heard the crowd
  roaring, but knew it wasn't for him; it was for the Brazilian team emerging
  from the clubhouse. He looked up into the stands-an ocean of dark faces
  rooting against him. Well, fuck them! He was the Blond Arrow! He did the
  impossible, regularly.

 At first, Will's brilliance was all show on the Maracana field. Uncanny
 dribbling, sudden changes of direction creating paths where none existed,
 impossible velocity in the smallest spaces-but no support, not even a half-
 chance at goal.
  Then, nine minutes into the second half, Will stepped in front of a bullet,
  a streaking pass meant for the Brazilian sweeper Ramon Palero.
  The white ball dropped like a stone from Will's shoulder. Almost in the
  same motion, his right leg flew back, and he felt a small muscle tear in
  his thigh, the pain corkscrewing into his knee socket.
   No matter. Will sent the ball flying toward the upper-
144   James Patterson

 left-hand corner of the Brazilian goal. The keeper could barely raise his
 arm, let alone stop the ball as it rocketed past him.
  "Gooool de America!" Will heard the loudspeaker, and believed the words
  to be true. "Gooool de Will Shepherd!"
  The Thrill exploded inside his brain. Adrenaline punched through his
  body, and the pain in his thigh and knee vanished. He felt all-powerful,
  the way he had
 the night before, when Victoria had taunted him. All-powerful!

 The striker!
 The goal scorer!
 No one was on the playing field but him! The loner!
  With only three minutes left in the game, he broke free again. He furiously
  pushed the ball down the left touchline, faked a pass inside but kept it
  himself, evading a defender who could only look after him in disbelief. His
  legs stopped suddenly, went forward again; stopped; accelerated from the
  dead stop.
  Then he shot, and the ball cannoned forward, a white blur, nearly ripping
  the net at the back of the Brazilian goal.
   "Gooool de America . . . Gooool de Will Shepherd. "
   Time remaining: two minutes and forty-six seconds.
   Still time enough.
        CHAPTER 37

 THE HUGE, SPRAWLING crowd had grown silent and still, their attention as
 much on the stadium clock as on the furious action on the field. Less than
 three minutes to play in what was suddenly a cliffhanger.
  No single player could defeat a great team. Not even Will Shepherd could
  accomplish such a feat.
  Everyone watching believed that; yet none of them could be absolutely sure.
  He was such a dazzling scorer, perhaps the greatest striker ever. He was a
  magician, or perhaps he'd made a deal with the devil.
  Will intercepted a pass to the Brazilian right wing and, like an eagle,
  swooped down the field at incredible speed. Everything was concentration
  now, moves practiced a thousand-no, a million times. He feinted left and
  went right at nearly ninety degrees, past a stranded
146  James Patterson

 defender. He could see the goalkeeper ahead of him, a patch of enemy color.
  If he were God he couldn't stop me, Will thought, and saw fear in the
  keeper's eye. He switched the ball from his right leg to his left.
  He used his elbow deftly on a defender. He curled softly to the right.
  The ninety minutes were up. There would be a few seconds of stoppage time.
  Plenty of time to be immortal, to join the likes of Pele and Cruyff.
  Relax. Let this stretch out. Feel it course through your body like heroin.
  The Brazilian goalkeeper moved left, anticipating Will's shot, leaving the
  right corner of the goal free.
   Not much daylight-a tiny sliver.
  The referee was raising his whistle. In seconds it would blow and the game
  would be over.
  It was a shot Will was famous for, a curve hit with the left foot that
  broke from left to right, and Will measured it carefully in his mind's eye.
  An opening as wide as the gates of Hell!
  He was aware of so many things: the sudden, chilling silence of the
  stadium, the sound of his own breath, and even of the ball on the turf, the
  look of pure horror on the keeper's face, the futile pursuit of the
  Brazilian sweeper.
  His father's face rose up before him. His eyes. His dead, open eyes on the
  surface of that swimming pool.
  And with the force of a whirlwind the furies attacked, demons took
  possession of his instincts, his legs, his soul. No! He wouldn't let that
  control him!
                   HIDE & SEEK   147

  With a roar and a shudder, Will drew back his left leg and kicked. He hit
  it smoothly, perfectly.
  He wanted to laugh at all those who had ever doubted him-he wanted to
  scream in each and every face looking down from their precious stadium
  seats.

 The crowd went mad. Literally insane. Strangers hugged and kissed, and a
 wild dance began, one hundred thousand people participating in the frenzy.
 From outside and in, horns and trumpets blared, and a thousand streamers
 flew upward toward the moon.
  As soon as he had shot, Will had fallen, all strength gone, and now as he
  lay on the ground he strained for the sound he didn't hear: "Gooool
  deAmerica . . . Gooool de Will Shepherd. "
  He saw the players running off the field, fearful of the crazed mob of
  spectators streaming toward them. Puzzled, he tried to stand up. Fear swept
  through his body. He couldn't get to his feet.
  But the game is a draw, Will thought. There's extra time to play. No one
  but the players should be allowed on the field. Get those assholes off. Get
  them off the field!
  A stricken Wolf Obermeier reached his side and tried to help him to his
  feet. "Too bad," his coach said. "How do Americans put it? Tough luck."
  "The game's a draw," Will said, but the look on Obermeier's face told him
  the truth, and at that instant all of his furies emerged, even noisier and
  more terrifying than the thousands of fans descending on them. His father
  was in that crowd carrying his mother. She was the
148   James Patterson

 dead one now. Blood gushed from her open mouth. His father held her out to
 Will, like a trophy.
 The Haunting.
  And Will Shepherd began to scream. Finally, he understood.
   Brazil had won the World Cup.
   The Blond Arrow had missed the shot of his life.
   He had failed.
   It's all your fault.
   It's always been your fault.
        CHAPTER 38

 T WAS LIKE carnival in Rio that night, and there was no more sensuous, no
 wilder time to be had
  anywhere in the world. Conga lines weaved along every street. Will had
  rented a red Corvette, and he drove it through the city like a madman. The
  football bum, the football loser, he thought. The werewolf of Rio.
  "Your name is Angelita, right?" he asked the woman slouched beside him in
  the speeding car. She was tall and dark-haired; very slender and quite
  strikingly beautiful. She wanted to feel the Blond Arrow, she'd told him.
  She wanted the Arrow deep inside her.
  "Yes, I am Angelita. You keep asking me, as if my name is going to change.
  Maybe the way you drive we'll both be called Dead On Arrival soon."
  "That's cute. That's very funny," Will said, shifting the car into fourth
  on the wide avenue that ran alongside
150   James Patterson

 Copacabana. "A funny and beautiful woman can be very dangerous, no?"
  She tossed her black hair back and laughed. "You're afraid I might steal
  your heart, right?"
  "No, not at all, Angelita. I'm afraid that you won't steal my heart. I'm
  afraid that no one will. Do you follow me?"
   "Not a word of it, darling."
   "Perfect!"
  He took her up to his hotel suite. The room was well illuminated by the
  twinkling lights of the city, so he didn't bother to switch on the lamp.
  The rhythm from drum-beating bands on the street sounded as though they
  were right in the room.
  "Put it in me right here, right now, Will Shepherd, numero nueve. I don't
  want to wait one second longer," she screamed at him as they embraced.
  That had been hours and hours ago. He had put it in her all right. She'd
  moaned, then she had tried to scream. Then she desperately tried to pull
  the "arrow" out of her heart.
  "What have you done? Oh my God, what did you do to me?"
  "I wanted to steal your heart," Will said in a whisper. "Did I?"
  Now, he kept forgetting her name. Who the hell was she? Oh yes, yes, it was
  Angelita.
  Now Angelita lay in the bathtub of his hotel room. He looked down at her
  and knew that he'd finally gone too far, even for him.
   He had gone too far-slipped right over the edge.
                   HIDE & SEEK   151

  If my fans could see me now, he thought. Here's the real Will Shepherd.
  This is the worthless scum I am. Beneath the handsome exterior beats a
  heart of darkness. Conrad, right? Will had finished that book in school.
  He'd understood it perfectly from the very first pages, until the end
  No one knew him, no one got it-except maybe Angelita. Now, she knows,
  doesn't she?
  The woman's brown eyes were glazed over, looking up at him-looking sideways
  it seemed. He was her god, right? Her savior from the mean streets of Rio.
  She had wanted so badly to fuck with such a big star. Well, she had been
  fucked.
  In his hand he held a glass filled with red liquid. He toasted Angelita. He
  saluted the woman with her own blood.
  "I'm sorry," he whispered. "Well, I'm not, but I wish I were."
  He drank from the glass, and knew he was lost. He had committed a murder.
  There would be a trial-he would be found guilty. Beads of perspiration
  formed on his forehead.
  Blond Arrow-silver stiletto-vampire-what difference did it make, really.
   He was going to prison for life.
        CHAPTER 39

 KNEW ALL about "falling from grace," but "falling in love" was something I
 realized I hadn't really
  understood before. It was happening though, gradually, beautifully, between
  Patrick and me. Day by day, our feelings for each other grew deeper and
  deeper. It was different from infatuation, which we'd experienced as well.
  Let me count the ways that I was learning to love Patrick.
  There was the way he reminded me, nearly every day, that I was very
  special, a worthwhile person. I began to believe it for the first time in
  my life.
  There was the way Patrick set out to learn everything about the kind of
  music I wrote and sang, and how he came to understand and appreciate it
  better than most music writers for Rolling Stone and Spin.
   There was the way he and Jenme could talk about
                   HIDE & SEEK  153

 anything and everything; and the way the three of us could do the same.
  There was the way in which he surprised and delighted me with his stories,
  his wit, his insights.
  In fact, during the first half year we were together, the only troubling
  point wasn't about us-it was Patrick's son. Peter was a genuine bastard-the
  opposite of his father. Peter tried to take over his father's company
  during that period, but he failed. Patrick mourned his failure with Peter,
  what he called, his loss of his only son.
  Which was a good segue for me, I was thinking one afternoon in Bedford. If
  there could be a segue for this-
  This was so hard, so very difficult for me. I was absolutely petrified. I
  sighed, got myself as ready as I'd ever be, and then said.

   "We're going to have a baby, Patrick. "
  We were sitting in the living room in Bedford. I was about ready to show.
  Show, I figured-and therefore tell. We had used discretion and protection,
  but somehow I got pregnant anyway.
  Even though I was an "artist" and "music person," I was traditional at
  heart and the pregnancy shook me to my roots. I told Jennie immediately.
  She said, "You love Patrick and he loves you. I love you both. I'm happy
  we're pregnant." That helped me a lot.
  Now, Patrick's face registered a half-dozen emotions: amazement, shock,
  consternation, worry, doubt-but then joy. Fabulous, unmistakable joy. The
  smile that I loved so much.
154   James Patterson

  "When's the baby due? My God, tell me everything, Maggie."
  "Five months, twelve days. Doctor Gamache didn't specify the hour."
  He was smiling very broadly now. He held both my hands. "Boy or girl?"
  "A boy, according to the amniocentesis. Allie? Do you like that name?"
  "It's a lovely name." He shook his head in wonder. "I'm very happy about
  it, Maggie. I couldn't possibly be happier. Have I told you lately how much
  I love you?" He continued to grin.
  "Yes," I whispered, "but tell me again. I never get tired of hearing it."

 And that night, with a vividness I thought had long ago disappeared, I
 remembered. I remembered him.
 Phillip returned to try and spoil everything.
  He was drunk, as he often was. He could barely walk. He barged in the front
  door, yelling my name, and I cowered in the kitchen, not answering him,
  even when he was only a few feet away.
  He had been so different when we'd first met in Newburgh. He'd been an
  officer and a gentleman, a scholar as well. He had swept me off my
  nineteen-year-old feet. I had been so needy, so alone. How could 1 have
  known that his role as professor frustrated him; that he'd joined the army
  to fight, but had been ordered to teach instead. He had to follow those
  orders, and was determined that I follow his.
                   HIDE & SEEK   155

  "When 1 call you, you say, `Yes, Phillip, "' he pronounced with a superior
  smirk.
  "Not when you're like this. No, Phillip. Not with me. Not ever. "
  The back of his hand slashed across my mouth. "Whenever 1 call, you say,
  `Yes, Phillip,' " he repeated.
  I said nothing. His wire-rimmed glasses were crooked on his nose. He looked
  like the effete snob that he was so afraid of being.
  "Maggie," he said softly, ominously.
  1 didn't answer. His hand rose again, this time a fist. He wasn't
  powerfully built, but he outweighed me by sixty pounds.
  "Yes, Phillip, fuck you," I said. 1 don't swear like tha4 but I did then.
  "What? What did you say, woman? What the hell did I just hear?"
  "You heard me. "
  He stood stock-still. Then he leered. "Okay, " he said, "let's fuck "
  He lunged for me, swaying drunkenly. I ran up the back stairs to the attic,
  and slammed the door in his face.
  Phillip kept guns up there. There were guns everywhere in the good
  soldier's house. l took one and cocked it. l pointed it at the attic door,
  waiting until his wild, angry face appeared.
  "Take another step and I'll shoot, I will, Phillip. " I was surprised at
  how calm I sounded, though I didn't feel calm.
156   James Patterson

  He stared at me, tried to stare me down, but he didn't move. Then he
  began to laugh, a monstrous cackle.
  "Oh, sweethear4 " he said when he could control himself. "Sweetheart
  sweetheart. You've won this round But you'll live to regret it. "
   I was still regretting it, after all these years.
        CHAPTER 40

 0N A PROMISING blue-skied morning, an uncharacteristically nervous and
 nonplussed Patrick had to rush me to the Northern Westchester Hospital in
 Mount Kisco, New York. He was so distraught, so unlike himself, it was
 charming and funny. Jennie came with us, and she was by far in the best
 shape, in the most control of the three of us.
  As Patrick's car hurtled down narrow, pine-wooded roads, I couldn't keep
  dark thoughts from my mind though. Think of the baby, I told myself, but
  instead I remembered newspaper and magazine stories that had been
  tormenting me ever since my pregnancy became public:
  "MAGGIE BRADFORD'S GREATEST LOVE SONG: Inside Story of the Not-So-Secret
  Hold Maggie Has Over Patrick."
   How could our beautiful relationship be made to sound
158   James Patterson

 so shameful? Who wrote stories like these? Who wanted to read them? I had
 told Patrick I didn't care what anybody said, but the media could be so
 cruel. I felt wounded, humiliated.
  Of course-at the time -I had no idea of how really
 savage they could be.
  "Patrick, I know you're hurrying . . . but please, go a little faster if
  you can. Please?"
   Dr. Lewis Gamache was waiting for us at the hospital.
  "Hi there, Mom." He squinted from behind silverframed bifocals. I had found
  him months before in the village of Chappaqua. He was a general
  practitioner who specialized in obstetrics, and I trusted him more than the
  far more famous doctors who had offered their services in New York.
  "Hello, Lewis. I feel kind of shitty." I tried to smile, but felt I was
  going to faint.
  "That's fine. It means you're almost there." He led me to a wheelchair, and
  I was taken inside.
  Almost there, indeed! At eleven o'clock that night, two nurses in white
  tunics sped me down bright hospital corridors to the operating room. My
  body was soaked with perspiration. My hair was matted and looked almost
  brown. I felt clammy and cold. The pain was unbearable, twice what I
  remembered while having Jennie.
  Dr. Gamache was waiting in the operating room. He was his usual wide-eyed
  and enthusiastic self.
   "Hello, Maggie. What took you so long?"
  "Ooohh." I shut my eyes as a contraction came again. "I was having too much
  fun in labor."
                   HIDE & SEEK   159

  "Let's rock and roll," he said. I got the joke, but I didn't laugh.

 At 11:19 in the morning, Dr. Gamache said, "Maggie, you've got yourself a
 little boy," and laid the baby beside me so I could look at him. He seemed
 to be yawning. Bored already with planet Earth? But he was such a beauty.
  He received the classic rear-end slap, rather than the foot flick. I could
  hear his thin, barely perceptible cry.
  "I don't think he's got your lungs," Dr. Gamache said. "Nurse, put the baby
  on the table warmer,.please."
   "His name is Allen," I said, and promptly passed out.
CHAPTER 41

PATRICK NEARLY FLEW into my hospital room. He was beaming. He hurried to my
bed, and we kissed. He was Paul Newman, and Spencer Tracyall wrapped in one.
He really was so wonderful: thoughtful, compassionate, tender, caring.
Patrick wanted to marry me-he'd already asked, but something about
"marriage," and my experience with Phillip, had made me ask him to wait.
Patrick said that he understood. I hoped he did. I also hoped he would ask
again-soon.
  Something crunched in his sport jacket pocket as he hugged me. Curious, I
  reached inside.
  "You've gone too far this time, buster," I said and smiled and rolled my
  eyes. "Cigars? How corny can you get?"
  "I'm a corny guy." Patrick shrugged. "The cigars are for my friends. I
  bought Irish whiskey for the unwed father."
                   HIDE & SEEK   161

 "Did you see Allie yet?"
  "You bet. The testicles on him. Bigger than his feet. I'm so impressed."
   I laughed. "That would interest you."
   "I thought it might interest his mother just a little."
   "To know that her son is well equipped for the world."
   "Exactly right, and very well put."
  Patrick reached out and held me gently against his chest. I could feel his
  heart beating. I loved that feeling, more and more so each day.
   1 can't think of a better father, I thought.
  Then I said it aloud for Patrick to hear. I had never been happier in my
  life. I would marry Patrick soon, I knew. We were already a family though,
  and happier than most that I knew.
   That night, I sang for little Allie for the first time.
        CHAPTER 42

  IS IS HOW it happened, dear readers. The third murder you've heard so many
  horrifying rumors about on TV and in the press. This is my confession, and
  it's never been printed anywhere before.
  Patrick loved his work, the grand hotels he had built; I was sure that he
  loved Allie, Jennie, and me; and he loved the sea, loved to sail. The only
  trouble in his life was the continuing fights with his son, Peter, over
  control of his company, and particularly The Cornelia Hotel. In the
  process, Peter also made it clear that he despised me. Patrick and I
  decided we had to live with Peter's attacks. So be it.
  I will never forget that day in early May. It was the first sail of the new
  spring: some time together for the two of us.
  We were dressed early that morning, sharing hot chocolate by five. My new
  and absolutely wonderful live-
                     HIDE & SEEK   163

 in, Mrs. Leigh, appeared and wished us a happy day off. "Don't worry about
 anything here, Mrs. Bradford." With Mrs. Leigh, I didn't have to. She had
 brought up two beautiful children of her own, and she was already part of
 our family.
  Patrick and I drove out to Port Washington on Long Island. We had a whole
  day off to be together. What a special treat that was!
  By six-thirty, we were sauntering down the sun-spotted deck of the proud,
  Victorian Manhasset Bay Yacht Club. The air was cool, but the morning
  promised pleasure and relaxation. I stopped Patrick halfway down the
  walkway and gave him a hug and a kiss. I couldn't resist.
  "I love you," I whispered. "Simple and uncomplicated as that might sound."
  "Hard to come by," he smiled, "but so spectacular once you find it. I love
  you too, Maggie."
  We reached the Rebellion a moment or two later. We would be sailing due
  east, Patrick told me, "into the sun, away from the earth."
  "The storm last week beat the hell out of these boats, ours included,"
  Patrick said, as he began a quick inspection. "Still water in here. Motor
  battery's probably dead. Antenna for the ship-to-shore broken. Shit. Remind
  me never to build a luxury liner. It'd be another Titanic."
                                    ~x:

 The Rebellion made it out of the yacht club around quarter past seven. We
 were on our bright and merry
 way. As much as I loved spending nearly every waking.
164   James Patterson

 moment with Allie, as much as I missed him already, I needed a morning off.
 I had been missing Patrick.
  It was a blue-skied morning, the kind of day that automatically made me
  feel good. I could see Patrick relax at the helm. On the horizon, a
  forty-eight-foot ketch moved slowly, probably toward the Caribbean.
  By noon, our boat was gliding through tiny whitecaps, miles away from the
  madness of New York. The hotel, Peter O'Malley, even Jennie and Allie, were
  forgotten. We were together on the privacy of the sea. I wondered if this
  was the day Patrick would ask me to marry him again.
  Smoky, soot-black clouds appeared suddenly from the northwest: a storm,
  rushing toward us rapidly. The temperature fell at least ten degrees within
  five minutes.
  "Oh shit," I said. "Plan a parade, right? Boo, hiss! I can't stand it."
  Patrick looked at the clouds with anxious eyes. "I'll call the Coast Guard
  for a weather check. Maybe we can wait this out."
  He walked toward the cabin, then stopped in midstride. "Hell, I can't call.
  Ship-to-shore's busted. Guess that means we head back in. Take the wheel,
  Maggie. Hold on tight."
   "Aye, aye."
  I wrestled with the steering wheel while Patrick reefed the mainsail. The
  pull was still too heavy at the helm. Patrick decided to change to a
  smaller storm jib from the sail locker. As a last resort, he'd take the jib
  down and motor back to Manhasset.
   Then the storm hit! A chilling fog curved around the
                   HIDE & SEEK   165

 high-peaked sailboat, and rain poured down, soaking us. The wind howled.
 Seawater splashed across the deck like a flash flood. The frightening power
 and force of nature were in evidence everywhere.
  My hand slipped on the wheel, and I had to fight to keep us on course.
  There was an exhilaration in the action, but beneath it, like a coiled
  snake ready to strike, fear had begun to lurk. This wasn't fun anymore.
  Patrick cursed loudly, then he really cursed. He ran, slipping and sliding,
  to where a loosened sail flapped like a wet bed sheet.
  He seemed to hesitate as he reached the sail, and drag his left leg. That
  was the impression I had, of his leg dragging.
  He paused, as if he'd forgotten something, then fell to his knees, as
  though someone had hit him on the back of his head.
   "Patrick!" I called out.
  He tried to stand. I saw him raise his hand to his chest. Then he
  collapsed.
   "Patrickl "
  I rushed across the slippery deck to his side. His face was as white as the
  mainsail, and his breathing was irregular. He lay on his side, and winced
  in pain as I moved him onto his back. Suddenly, I couldn't breathe. A tight
  fist clenched in the pit of my stomach.
  I found wool blankets and a strip of greenish trap. I covered Patrick a
  well as I could. I took his hand in mine. I was having trouble focusing my
  eyes.
  "You went away," he whispered "Please don't do it again. Let me look at
  you, Maggie."
166   James Patterson

  I tried to keep his body quiet as waves rolled over us, soaking us.
  "I'm here. And don't you go away either. Everything will be fine. You're
  going to be all right."
  I believed it, at least part of me did, but the fearsnake inside me
  uncoiled, and I had to turn my face away so he wouldn't see it. Then I
  looked back at him.
  Patrick's face had turned an ashen gray. Beads of perspiration appeared on
  his forehead and upper lip, though the wind was cold. Oh please, God. Oh
  please, I kept thinking. 1 love him so much. Please don't do this.
  "Just in case I'm not around for last call," he said, "I want you to be
  happy. And make our son Allie happy, which I know you will. And make sure
  Jennie doesn't marry an Irishman. Promise," he whispered in the voice I
  loved so.
  "I promise," I finally whispered, fighting back the tears.
  "I love you, sweet one," he said. "I love you, Maggie. You are the best."
  Patrick had that familiar, wry look in his eyes, but suddenly they changed.
  He stared past me.
  Then a strange sound rose up from deep inside his chest. He let go of my
  hand. He just let go of me. Simple and uncomplicated as our love had been.
  I screamed as I stared into Patrick's eyes. Oh, God, please don't let him
  die.
  I held him tightly and began to cry. I put my head on his chest, now silent
  and still.
                   HIDE & SEEK   167

  Oh please . . . please, don't let this happen. Whoever's in charge, show
  us mercy.
  Patrick couldn't hear me. He was gone. As swiftly as the storm that
  swirled about us had come up.
        CHAPTER 43

 MUST HAVE held him for an hour, not caring what would happen to me or to the
 floundering boat that
 bore us.
  The storm had traveled due east, and the waters were calm again, though I
  barely noticed. A feeble sun cast streaks of amber light on lapping caps of
  grayish-green water.
  I sat helpless beside him on the lonely, quietly rocking deck. I thought of
  the times we had shared together, and each time I did, I started to cry
  again.
   Don't go away. Let me look at you.
  Don't go away, Patrick. Don't go away and leave me . . . oh, Padriac, oh,
  Patrizio, I moaned.
  Sailors from the Coast Guard found me drifting at the reddish edge of
  sunset. I was still cradling Patrick in my arms.
  So there you have it-that's how I killed him. That's my confession.
BOOK THREE
Will
                                     
        CHAPTER 44

 WHEN WILL HEARD loud and persistent knocking at the door of his suite in the
 Rio Hilton, he shivered. He staggered from his bed, and hid himself in the
 bathroom.
  He was barely able to navigate the few steps without falling. Go away,
  whoever you are. Get the hell away from here!
  He heard the front door of the suite open and the sound of voices. A maid,
  and someone else.
  Jesus Christ, they can't come in here-whoever it is. Not now!
  "Thanks for letting me in," the voice said. "I can manage from here."
   Palmer!
   Who in hell invited him?
   Nobody can be here-not even my brother Palmer!
172   James Patterson

 I'm out of control and I don't know if 1 can ever get it back!

 Palmer Shepherd's eyes took in details of the puzzle: the closed bathroom
 door; the mirror laid flat on the night table bearing a razor, a rolled up
 hundred dollar bill, the remnants of God knows how much cocaine. An empty
 bottle of tequila on the floor. A half-full glass of a red liquid on the
 other night table. Port? Cinzano?
  But where was Will? Where in hell had Will gone to?
   Here I an-4 little brotherl
  With the howl of a werewolf, a naked Will was on him, wrestling him to the
  ground, pinning his arms. Then Will was sitting on his stomach as he had
  when they were boys.
   "You lose. I win!"
  Only this time Will's eyes were scarily wild, and his body-God, his
  body!-was covered with blood.
  Palmer stared up at his brother in disbelief and horror. "Jesus, Will, what
  in hell did you do to yourself?"
   Will laughed loudly, manically. "Cut myself shaving."
  Will sprang off him and appeared to dance across the room. He picked up the
  half-full glass and offered it to his brother. "Cut her shaving too. Blood
  actually goes with tequila. Taste?"
  "You cut who shaving? What the hell happened here? What are you on?"
  "Angelita. I've got her body in the bathroom. She's just a whore." Once
  more he held out the glass of dark red
                   HIDE & SEEK   173

 liquid. "I'm afraid I drank most of it myself. Breakfast of

 champions."
  "You didn't," Palmer whispered. He rose to his feet on unsteady legs.
  "You couldn't have."
   "Didn't what? Couldn't have what?"
   "Kill her."
  "Well, I don't know." Will's eyes were easily as large as silver dollars.
  Mad eyes. "Let's find out. Let's have a look."
  Will opened the bathroom door, and shared his secret life with his
  brother.
  "What's the verdict, little brother? Did 1, or did I not? Are you going
  to help me this time?"
        CHAPTER 45

 FOR ONCE THE outrageous stories in the fan magazines were mostly accurate
 and true, and maybe even understated. Will knew this, and so did his
 brother.
  Will was dangerous, even more dangerous than the tabloids suspected. He had
  spent six weeks in a private New York hospital, recovering from a
  "breakdown." There had been a "substance problem" in Rio.
  He'd done much worse things than a little cocainebut he'd gotten away with
  them. It had cost him-a sizable bribe every week to his beloved brother-but
  at least he was still free and on the loose. He wasn't in prison for the
  rest of his life.
  Will and Palmer had decided he ought to live somewhere other than London
  for a while. The little bastard Palmer had insisted on it, actually. It was
  a part of their "deal." For some reason, Will found himself drawn to New
  York anyway.
                   HIDE & SEEK   175

  He sublet an apartment on the East Side, and loved it so much he went
  looking for a house. He happened to read in the Times that Maggie Bradford
  had a place in Westchester. So did Winnie Lawrence. Will decided to look in
  Westchester first.
  He was still a huge fan of Maggie's songs. Her music was healing; he was
  convinced of it. He'd even talked to his hotsy-totsy Fifth Avenue shrink
  about the songs, especially the lyrics. The doc was also a Maggie Bradford
  fan, so he understood what Will was talking aboutat least he thought he
  did.
  Will fantasized about meeting Maggie one day in Westchester. He was certain
  it could be arranged somehow. He was clever enough to accomplish that,
  wasn't he?
        CHAPTER 46

 THIS IS THE part that doesn't make much sense. Maybe that's why it
 fascinates so many people, holds their attention over weeks and even months
 as the murder trial approaches. This is the real mysteryeven for me it is.
 My time with Will Shepherd, my dark night of the soul. How could it have
 happened? How did it happen?

 After Patrick's death, his heart attach I kept to myself, with only Jennie
 and Allie, and stayed miles away from the media, whom I had come to dread
 and despise during my pregnancy. On a lushly green spring morning nearly a
 year after Patrick's death, I was working in the garden. Allie was playing
 by my side. We were interrupted by the security guard, hired to keep away
 unwelcome visitorswhich meant, just about everybody.
 "There's a Mr. Nathan Bailford here," he said.
                   HIDE & SEEK   177

 "Knows you don't want to see anyone, but says it's very important."
  Nathan was a neighbor I didn't know well. I did know he was a high-powered
  lawyer, and that he was instrumental in keeping Peter O'Malley from
  interfering in the completion of The Cornelia. What could he want? Why was
  he here now? Was there more trouble with Peter?
  "Let Mr. Bailford come up," I reluctantly told the guard. "We have
  company," I told Allie. "Let's go get pretty."
  The lawyer was in his late fifties, but looked about forty-five. He smiled
  in greeting, but his charcoal gray suit, white shirt, and a
  crimson-and-gold rep's tie were lawyer-serious, and not one
  silver-and-black curly hair was out of place.
  Nathan Badford took my outstretched hand in both his own. "You know, I've
  driven by I don't know how many times since the funeral. I've thought of
  you often, didn't know whether to barge in or leave you alone."
  "I'm glad you finally decided to come." Patrick's friend is my friend, I
  thought, and tried to be hospitable.
   "So, are you okay?" he asked.
  "Oh, it comes and it goes," I told him. "The nights are the worst. I'm kind
  of having a bad decade."
  Nathan Badford didn't know how to answer. Finally, he just smiled. Good
  decision. I liked him for that.
  "Actually, I'm here on business," he admitted, when coffee was served on
  the patio. "It's something-well, it just couldn't wait any longer. As you
  know, it's been almost a year since Patrick died. I had to stop by today."
178   James Patterson

  He sipped his coffee and I noticed that his hand shook. He loosened his
  tie. "Patrick's will is finally scheduled to be read. It's been an
  incredible mess. Never seen anything like it. My staff and I have been
  preparing everything according to his explicit and typically complicated
  wishes. Maggie, I've got to tell you. It's going to mean a bad fight. Peter
  O'Malley is not a happy camper right now. Patrick was right about his son-
  Peter can be a real bastard. He is one."
  I wasn't ready for this. I had given no thought to Patrick's money or his
  estate, and Nathan's edginess frightened me. The idea of a fight with Peter
  was disturbing, but the thought of the media hearing of it bothered me even
  more.
  "What's that got to do with me?" I asked. "Nathan, I really can't get
  involved in all this."
  Nathan Bailford stared into my eyes. "Patrick's left controlling interest
  in the corporation to you, Jennie, and Allen. He's bequeathed Peter a flat
  sum, a tremendous sum, of course, but twenty-seven percent of the business
  is yours and your children's."
  I couldn't believe what I had heard. I couldn't believe id "H-how much is
  it worth?" I asked. I actually stuttered.
  "Over two hundred million dollars in cash, stock, and real estate holdings.
  Give or take a few mil. A lot, Maggie."
  I felt a crazy burst of anger. "Oh, Nathan, why? I don't need twenty-seven
  percent or any percent. I've got money, more than I need. I don't want
  anything to do with it. I really don't."
                   HIDE & SEEK   179

  All of a sudden, I found myself laughing, which made Nathan Bailford sit
  back in his chair.
  But God, it was funny! It really was. I had just inherited something like
  two hundred million dollars, and I felt as though I had been put in
  prison.
        CHAPTER 47

 HE WAS CAMYING Jennie! How could that be 9' I couldn't believe what I was
 seeing, but I was s
 se'eing it. There it was. Bada-boom.
  Will Shepherd, the soccer player who had tried to pick me up at the
  Trevelyans' party in London, was at my front door, carrying my daughter! It
  definitely was he. No mistaking that. I'd never forget the long blond hair
  and his face, and a few other things about him as well.
  The guard had called from the front gate saying that Jennie had hurt
  herself and that a man from the neighborhood was bringing her up to the
  house. When I saw who it was, I was absolutely stunned.
   This was insane.
  I didn't ask about Jennie-she looked too comfortable, dressed in a
  sweatsuit, her legs dangling from his arms.
                   HIDE & SEEK   181

  "Put her down! Please put Jennie down," I loudly told him.
  "Where, ma'am?" Will Shepherd said in a soft, calm voice. Jennie was no
  more difficult for him to carry than a pillow.
  "There. On the couch in the living room is great. Please, put her down!"
  He looked at me with troubled eyes, which gave me pause. "Hey," he said,
  "she was hurt. I nearly hit her with my car. Lucky thing she jumped aside
  and only twisted her ankle. It happened right in front of the Lawrences'.
  That's where I'm staying. I was just going out. Didn't see her."
  "It's kind of you to have brought her. Thank you," I managed. My voice was
  cold. "Now please leave. Thank you though. I mean that."
  Jennie sat up on the couch where he had placed her. "You could at least
  offer him some coffee," she said. "Something?"
  "I'm sure Mr. Shepherd's done enough for us and wants to get on about his
  business."
  "You know who I am?" he asked. Now he looked even more puzzled. The
  bastard.
   "We've met," I said. Curt, just like that.
  He seemed surprised. "Really? Where? I don't go backstage, though I've
  heard you sing. It was at the Albert Hall. The Queen was there."
   "Not at a concert. At a party." Curt.
  "If so, I don't remember, and I'd remember meeting you. I'm quite certain
  of that."
   He knelt to check Jennie's ankle. "Doesn't seem like
182   James Patterson

 there's anything broken," he said. "I've broken enough bones to be a decent
 judge of that. Still, you should probably call a doctor."
  "As soon as you go, that's what I'm going to do. Thanks for the advice."
  He rose slowly. "Nice to meet you, Jennie. Hope you feel better soon." He
  turned toward the door.
  "Good-bye, Mr. Shepherd," Jennie said. Suddenly, I suspected some
  shenanigans on her part in this. She and her friends occasionally "stalked"
  rock stars, so why not a sports celebrity?
  "I don't want you talking to him again," I told her when the door had
  closed.
  She stared at me, her face red. I'd never seen her this angry. "How could
  you act that way? Mother," she cried. "God!"
  She leapt from the couch, gave a small cry, and collapsed. She had been
  hurt. Maybe Will Shepherd had done the right thing in helping her home.
  Maybe I had been wrong about him this time.
        CHAPTER 48

 MY HOUSE WAS next door to one of the better Westchester country clubs, the
 Lake Club in Bedford. The members of the Lake Club paid astronomical dues
 and fees to ensure that the finest chefs and groundskeepers were employed
 there. Its carefully manicured lawns and private gardens reminded me of
 Gstaad, Lake Forest, Saint-Tropez, places I had visited on my concert tours
 of Europe.
  I was at "the club" for a party in late September. It was one of my first
  forays back into the real world.
  I had to stop to catch my breath at the top of the steep fieldstone steps
  that led from the driveway to the main clubhouse. The last big party I had
  been to was for the opening of The Cornelia, and a memory of Patrick came
  back so clearly that tears welled up in my eyes.
   "Damn," I whispered. Get a grip, Maggie.
   The beautiful lawn was filled with people. Dimly, I
184   James Patterson

 became aware of a wet bar, and a jazz combo playing quietly beside it. I
 said hello to a few Bedford residents, smiled at others whose names I should
 have known but didn't. A Broadway producer took me aside to insist that I
 name a price and the talent I wanted around me for a show. I told him that
 the offer was flattering, but really premature, and that I would call him
 when I was ready. I was pressured by his intensity though, and began to feel
 an all-too-familiar anxiety building.
 The recluse of Greenbriar Road strikes again! I
 thought. It was too much too fast. I shouldn't have come.
 Damn it, damn it!
  Soon I excused myself, and went to be alone in the gardens that branched
  off the Lake Club's riding ring. I felt like such a fool; a loser, outcast,
  freak. I remembered being that way all the time when I was younger; too
  tall for most boys, and a stutterer as well.
  The gardens were empty, and I inhaled the fragrant air, relaxing into a
  kind of hazy satisfaction. This was better.
  " `The loss of grace is the saddest trip . . . but grace can be rewon,
  Maggie."'
  My words, whispered close behind me. I wheeled to face the man who spoke
  them.
   Will Shepherd was standing next to me.
   I actually jumped.
        CHAPTER 49

 TOOK A step back, but not too far. Somehow, he didn't seem quite as
 threatening in the colorful gardens and in broad daylight.
  "I came to find out why you were so cold to me when I brought your daughter
  home."
  My eyes rolled involuntarily. He couldn't be that thick, I thought. "You
  really don't remember, do you?"
  He shook his head. Sunlight bounced off his blond curls.
   "What are you talking about? Please tell me," he said.
  "The costume ball at the Trevelyans. You asked me to go home with you-be
  with you. You were very crude. Worse than crude, actually."
  "I don't remem-" He stopped, and slapped his forehead. He actually blushed.
  "Oh my God," he said. "Oh shit. You have to forgive me. I was drunk, maybe
  drugged, and completely crazy."
186   James Patterson

  "And disgusting," I added. "Don't forget that. Well, nice seeing you again.
  Good-bye."
   I turned and began to walk back toward the party.
   He ran to catch up with me.
  "I'm not drunk now, not drugged, and I'm just a little crazy. Please talk
  to me for a moment. It's important. To me it is. Please? I think I can
  explain my behavior."
   "But do I want to hear it?" I said to him.
  "Fair enough. I'm sure I deserve that, though I still don't remember much
  of what I did."
  I studied him for a few seconds. He was dressed in a rumpled white linen
  suit, and the color of his hair seemed gold. He was tan, and definitely
  handsome-I had to give him that.
  "I only want to tell you one thing," he said, affecting a sincerity I
  couldn't believe was genuine. "You're an inspiration to me, to a lot of
  people. I heard you sing at the concert for the Queen, and I thought you
  were singing to me. I know you weren't, but that's what I felt. You touched
  me, so thank you. That wasn't so bad, was it?"
  Despite myself, 1 turned toward him. I saw pain in his eyes. " `Loss of
  Grace'?" I asked.
  "That song more than any other, though I loved them all, well, most of
  them. I was going through a bad patch at the time. You reminded me that
  grace could be rewon."
   "Yes. Well. Have you rewon it?" I asked.
  His expression grew sadder. He suddenly seemed very genuine, almost human.
  "No, I'm afraid not. Not in this lifetime. Not after . . . my performance
  in Rio."
   I shook my head. I was lost.
                   HIDE & SEEK   187

 "In Rio? I'm sorry."
  For the first time, he smiled. I hadn't seen him smile before, and it was
  something to see. "You mean you don't know?"
  "I'm afraid not. I seem to remember that when we first met I told you I
  knew nothing about sports. Sorry, but I don't keep a little scrapbook of
  your clippings. We have one Michael Jordan mug from McDonald's at the
  house. That's about it for our sports collection."
  "Well thank God about that," he said. The smile remained. Turned down, but
  still present.
  We were silent for a moment. He's shy with me, I thought. He doesn't know
  what to say next.
  Oh boy, Maggie, don't start this. You won't, of course, but don't even
  think about it.
   "I ought to go back," I said. "My date-"
  "He can wait a few more minutes, can't he? Take a walk with an old retired
  gent first."
   I hesitated. "I was about to leave."
  "Don't leave yet. Please. We were talking about you last night at dinner.
  Winnie Lawrence, June, and I."
   "Oh?"
  "They told me about Patrick O'Malley. I'm very sorry."
  "Yes. It was terrible." There was nothing I wanted to add.
  We walked through a tunnel of drooping pine trees, a lamplit watercolor
  undercourse. We began to talk of all sorts of unexpected things: the old
  Harlem River Railroad line (Will was a bug on railroads); how rural
  Westchester compared with rural England; a recent Jef-
  188   James Patterson

 frey Archer novel we both had read. He was as correct with me as a
 schoolboy, and I felt my own shyness coming back.
  I did fear I was being conned. But I figured he was trying so very hard .
  . . and he was sweet that day. And, I have to admit, to be truthful, he was
  gorgeous to look at.
  A patch of laughter, scattered party applause, snuck through the blackthorn
  bushes. I looked at my wristwatch.
  "I don't believe it. We've been talking for over an hour. I do have to go.
  It's my night to cook. Will, I'm sorry."
  "I'm not. Not a bit. I'm some terrific guest of honor though. This could be
  my last retirement party. I'd better go back too."
  As we walked back to the clubhouse, he took my arm for a second, a gentle
  touch on my elbow, then let it go. "I needed that," he said. "I haven't
  talked to anyone like this in a long, long time."
  "I haven't either." I admitted. I smiled. "Therewe've shared a secret."
  "Could we see each other again? I'm really not the way you think."
  I knew he would ask, and I knew my answer. "I'm afraid not. It's too soon
  for me."
  "You're right," he said. "Besides, there are far better men for you than a
  retired football bloke."
  I liked his self-deprecation, at the same time suspecting it might be part
  of his seduction routine. It must be terrible for an athlete to retire, to
  be finished with
                   HIDE & SEEK  189

 a career so young. How would 1 feel if I had to give up singing?
  "And there are younger and more beautiful women for you," I said to him.
  "I'm looking for something a little deeper than that now," he said. "And
  besides, you are beautiful. Don't you know that? . . . You don't, do you,
  Maggie?"
   "I really have to go now," I said.
  But I already realized he was different from what I had originally thought.
  He had substance, but he was very complex. Interesting.
CHAPTER 50

 MAGGIE BRADFORD WAS everything that her songs promised, and maybe even more,
 Will thought. She wasn't aware of it, but she was very attractive as well.
  She was the one who could save him. He was convinced of it, and he began to
  be obsessed by her. He had to see her again. He listened to her songs
  constantly, at home, and in his car.
  He planned everything carefully, beginning with a long letter asking not
  for a meeting, but for her understanding. Another time he wrote of his
  mother's desertion when he was a boy, then of his father's suicide. He told
  Maggie how her songs soothed and helped him, and asked only that she
  respond in some way.
  There was no word from her, and, as was the usual case, he turned to other
  women. He lashed out at one
                   HIDE & SEEK   191

 of them. Nothing as bad as Rio, but scary anyway. The werewolf of New York.
  But out of the blue, Maggie wrote him a letter. She told him that the first
  step was to face his pain, as he so obviously had. He finally called her
  and asked for a meeting just once, in New York, and only for lunch.
  They met at one o'clock, November 12, at the Oak Room in the Plaza Hotel.
  The locale was meant to be as nonthreatening as possible. He had it all
  figured out. He was going to win Maggie over. He couldn't bear to lose
  again.
   He planned to seduce her.
   He planned to win.
   He had no doubt that he would.
CHAPTER 51

 A MONTH AND a half passed before I saw Will again. He wrote to me several
 times. The letters revealed even more than talking with him had. He was
 deep, and also sensitive. When he finally called, I was ready to see him
 again. Just a lunch. Harmless enough, or so I thought.
  This was lunch with Will Shepherd! Even if it was in the dark, gloomy Oak
  Room. I was sure a lot of women would have died for the opportunity. A few
  of them were actually there, it seemed, checking us out from nearby tables.
  I must admit, he was nice to be with. Will was personable, articulate,
  warm, and he continued to be sensitive. As I look back on the meeting now,
  I have a terrible suspicion though: I wonder if he rehearsed.
   "I like to talk to other people who've been in the
                   HIDE & SEEK   193

 spotlight," Will admitted. "As long as they have their heads on straight."
 I grabbed at my neck. "My head okay?"
  Will laughed. We both did. I knew exactly what he meant about talking with
  people who had experienced "star treatment." There definitely was a bonding
  that could happen.
  "Tell me about Rio," I said to him about midway through lunch. "No, tell me
  some good stuff, first."
  "I don't want to talk about me," Will said and waved off the question. That
  was unusual, and refreshing. The thing I didn't like about talking to most
  "stars" was that they loved talking about themselves. I'd have bet that
  Will was like that. Now I saw that I'd been wrong.
  "Leave it at this," Will said. He took a sip of his wine and stared into
  space. "I'm changing now. I'm looking for grace rewon. Just like in your
  song."
  "You'll find it," I said gently. He had touched me a bit. He was clearly
  vulnerable, and needy. I secretly liked the fact that he enjoyed my songs
  so much. I guess I wanted to be a part of his conversion.
   "Help me, Maggie." He said the words softly.
   "How? How can I possibly help you, Will?"
  He looked at me so intensely I felt my cheeks burning. "Include me in your
  songs," he said.

 I did better than that. I included him in my life. It was as though I
 couldn't help myself. As though the planets had conspired to do this to me.
  He asked me out, hesitantly, and I found it not so much charming as
  riveting. He had a way of being
194   James Patterson

 attentive that told me I and I alone mattered. He shut out all distractions
 when we talked. He looked only at me, listened only to me, made me believe
 I was wise, and worthy, and special.
 And so, I went out with Will Shepherd again.

 It was very romantic in the beginning. It all came very slowly. It felt
 right.
  We didn't even kiss until our fourth "date." It came naturally, at my front
  door, as he was saying good night. The kiss had gentleness and passion, and
  I felt myself responding almost despite myself.
   I pushed him away, gently. "This will take time."
  Will kissed me again, a longer kiss that was amazingly tender. For me, it
  was half pleasure, half pain. I wanted him and I was afraid of the need.
  I'd heard the stories about him; I was skeptical that he could change. And
  yet, he so desperately wanted to change.
  This time Will moved away voluntarily. He opened the front door for me, and
  was gone.
  My driveway was lit at night, and I stood there for a moment, watching him
  walk to his sports car. Long after it had disappeared into the darkness, I
  stared after him, my emotions confused, but definitely heightened.
        CHAPTER 52

 ILL DROVE STRAIGHT to Manhattan that night. He pushed his sports car to over
 a hundred Iffon the Saw Mill River Parkway. Jesus, he was good! But he was
 also frustrated, and incredibly, painfully horny as a goat. He didn't know
 how much more of this slow-dance courting business he could take. He wasn't
 used to it.
  Maggie was as straightforward and honest as her songs-but he was beginning
  to wonder if she was worth the challenge. He was having trouble, well,
  being so fucking nice all the time. Sometimes, he felt he couldn't possibly
  be good enough for her.
  Cat and mouse, he thought as he crossed from Westchester into New York
  City. That's what it amounted to with women. He almost always caught
  them-some were just more trouble than others. It was another game
196   James Patterson

 really, a substitute for football, and whatever football was a substitute
 for.
  Rebecca Post was an art dealer who had a big coop on East Sixty-first
  Street overlooking the bridge. Rebecca was such an easy little mouse to
  catch, Will thought. Maybe she was too easy, but he could probably think of
  something to spice that up. Sure he could.
  Will used his key to let himself into her luxury apartment. It certainly
  hadn't been hard to get his own keyhe'd just asked, once.
  The Blond Arrow tiptoed when he was inside the darkened apartment. He felt
  like an intruder. A digital clock in the living room clicked the
  time-twenty past one.
  An intruder-he rather liked that. He thought he could get into it. He was
  an intruder-wasn't he? He intruded into the lives of a lot of women, and
  they seemed to welcome the diversion.
  The werewolf of London, Paris, Frankfurt, Rome, Rio-and now New York. So be
  it.
  He peered into the master bedroom and saw Rebecca. The dear girl was
  sleeping in the nude, spread out in a comfy, sexy pose on top of the
  sheets. Her long auburn hair fanned out across the pillow. Beautiful.
  Desirable as hell.
  Will knew exactly what he wanted to do-rape her, without saying a single,
  solitary word. And then just leave her apartment.
                   HIDE & SEEK   197

  That's what the Blond Arrow did-exactly what he felt like doing.
  Same as it always was. Love was just a game-to be won, or lost.
        CHAPTER 53

 ILL HAD TO fly to Los Angeles for a couple of screen tests at the beginning
 of January. I found that I missed him more than I wanted to admit, or
 thought that I would. Sometimes, I feared that he was a sorcerer, a
 sleight-of-hand artist, a seduction artist like no other. Barry counseled me
 that Will was exactly that. "He's not that way with me," I told him. It was
 the truth.
  Will came back on a Thursday, and took me to dinner in Bedford. I wore
  heels and a beaded black dress, a little glamorous for me, and was glad
  when he noticed. "I love the way you look," he said. Simple, but nice to
  hear.
  He was in a wonderfully expansive mood. I enjoyed seeing him this way.
  "The good news," Will told me, "is that the camera loves me. The bad is
  that I can't act." It was a funny line, and we both laughed.
                   HIDE & SEEK   199

  He talked nonstop. He seemed genuinely amazed by his reception in
  Hollywood. I found that I was really happy for him. We laughed a lot over
  dinner. I felt completely relaxed around Will now. People kept pointing us
  out, but they were considerate enough to stay away. Maybe they thought that
  we were in love?
  By the time dinner was over, it was snowing. Wind whipped the trees so they
  bowed like exotic dancers; the flakes bit into our eyes as we dashed for
  the car. Even as we ran, I wanted to reach out and hold him. I just did. It
  was how I felt.
  Will drove home carefully, and walked me to the front door. I still wanted
  to be held so badly. He had on a very nice, subtle cologne. He'd only worn
  a sport coat and looked dashing. His cheeks were rosy red, and when he
  smiled, it was quite something.
  "Good night," he said. "Thanks for going to dinner and listening to me talk
  way too much about the new career."
   I didn't want him to go. Sorcerer, I thought.
  "Hold on," I said. "It's a mess out. I don't want you driving in this
  storm." There had already been too many accidents in my life.
  There was a strange, soft light in his eyes. His smile was soft and kind
  too. "It's only a few more miles. I think I can make it, Maggie."
   "Please?" I said. "Just come in for a bit."
  Will nodded, and followed me inside. He seemed reluctant to stay.
   He said he had to make a quick phone call-that he
200   James Patterson

 was supposed to have a drink with the Lawrences and had to let them know he
 wouldn't be coming.
  When he returned, we settled down in the living room. I'd checked on Jennie
  and Allie, and they were sleeping soundly. Unless someone set off a cannon
  in their bedrooms, they'd both be dead to the world until morning. Then I'd
  need the cannon to get Jennie up and ready for school.
  1 am a single woman, thirty-eight years old, I told myself. I'm in control
  of this situation. l can handle it. I'm not doing anything wrong. I enjoy
  this person I'm with very, very much. Of course, he has cast a spell over
  me!
  "I never would have imagined this happening," I told Will as we sat and
  watched the snow fall. "The two of us like this. Snowflake watching."
  "Truthfully, neither did I. I didn't think you'd give me a chance to prove
  that I'd finally come to my senses, become a grown-up, that I could change
  for the better. How am I doing? Do you see any improvement?"
  "You're doing just fine. Don't push it," I said, and we both laughed.
  I put my head on his shoulder and enjoyed the moment. I liked feeling his
  back and shoulder muscles. I really would never have imagined myself with
  Will, but I was so comfortable now. I even allowed myself to admit that he
  was an incredible hunk. I loved the clean, fresh smell of him. His hair was
  thick and amazing. I wondered what he liked about me.
  He turned his head, and kissed me. "Not too grownup," he whispered. His
  kiss made me a little dizzy.
                   HIDE & SEEK   201

  It was my decision, my choice. I took Will's hand, and led the way to a
  guest bedroom near the pool. I was conscious of his fingers curled around
  mine. I'd straightened up the guest room earlier in the day. Fresh linen.
  Aired the space out. Just in case.
  I guess I wanted this to happen. No, I knew that I did. And that night, it
  did.
  Cut to train going through very picturesque mountainside tunnel.
   Again, and again, and again.
        CHAPTER 54

  ECIAL MEMORIES-SO confusing now. Like photographs that don't really tell
  the whole truth, k) like photographs that can lie.
  The blue-and-white-striped Land Rover flew up the imposing rock face at the
  famed resort hotel in Las Veides. Will and I had three unbelievable days to
  ourselves. Just the two of us.
  Our Mexican driver rounded a curve so fast that the Rover nearly skidded
  off the narrow road; a fall would have hurtled us a thousand feet down to
  Acapulco Bay. I held Will tightly, wanting to be as close as I could. I was
  into all the tiniest details: how I fit up against him, the contours of his
  body, every little scar and its origin; how fast his light blond beard
  grew. I wanted to know everything there was to know about his life, not the
  exaggerated stories in the tabloids.
   "How about a swim, Maggie?" he asked when we
                   HIDE & SEEK   203

 got to our room. He sounded shy, and I liked the sound of his voice. "Let's
 throw on our suits and explore the deep blue sea."
  Will and I were gently rocking back and forth, hugging each other under a
  revolving teak ceiling fan in our suite.
  "Maybe a little later," I murmured. "We're alone right now, and I think I
  want to enjoy this. I'm sure I do. Can we . . . just . . . do nothing?"
  He laughed. "Okay, no deep blue sea. How about no suits, and an exploration
  of the intimate, private pool that management has so thoughtfully
  provided?"
   "That sounds better. I like that idea a lot."
  We kissed softly, for a long, long time, the way we often did. I had the
  thought: Am 1 losing myself, or am I finding something I've lost along the
  way?
  Will slid the glass doors that opened onto a spectacular terrazzo. We
  continued to undress until we stood in front of the small pool that
  glittered with hundreds of sun diamonds and stars. Yellowbirds and colorful
  parrots chattered in the surrounding brazilwood trees. This was paradise,
  wasn't it? Or so it seemed at the time.
  Through a curtain of royal palms and bougainvillea, I could see the red
  roofs of other cottages, but not the other private swimming pools. I liked
  that touch. No one could see us either.
  With a tiny whoop, I jumped into the pool, pulling Will after me. We
  weren't being silly just playful, like a couple of children.
  He grabbed my arm, drew me to him. He was already hard. I slid my hands
  down his slender, muscular body
204   James Patterson

 and stroked his thighs. He was always so warm and tender with me; he was
 nothing like what I had expected.
 We kissed again-soft and long.
  Will raised me from the tile floor of the pool, and turned me so I could
  brace myself against the pool's edge. He slowly, slowly entered me. I
  closed my eyes, becoming aware of new sensations, relishing the warm sun on
  my face, and an even greater heat building inside.
  I had never been with anyone like Will. He made me feel so special. I have
  to say that, because it's the truth.
        CHAPTER 55

 THERE IS A powerful, powerful image that never fits for me, that will always
 be a mystery, a beautiful and sad and troubling mystery.
  After Will and I returned from our quick trip to Mexico, we spent a long
  weekend doing everything the kids wanted to do. Doing some of the things
  Jennie and Allie wanted to do anyway. They were so excited, and Will was
  wonderful with them.
  We went to New York for one day, and we played out-of-towners-the Trade
  Center, the Statue of Liberty, the museum mile, even the Hard Rock Cafe.
  But then, we spent an even more special day on the grounds around the
  house-as a family, seeing if that's what we all wanted.
  I watched Jennie and Allie with Will, and I could tell they adored him. I
  was almost certain he liked being around the kids, that he ached to bring
  up children just
206   James Patterson

 right, the way it ought to be done, not the way it had happened to him. He
 had told me as much.
  I remember seeing him with Allie that afternoon at the house. The
  extraordinary picture sticks with me, one that will always play on my mind.
  It was an Indian summer kind of day, brilliantly sunny, in the high
  fifties. The two of them were riding on one of our tamer horses, a sweet
  mare Jennie had named Fleas. Will and Allie rode across a wide field of
  tall grass that looked sea-green in the light.
  They had their winter jackets on, but open, acting very manly, both of them
  strikingly blond. They were laughing uproariously as Fleas loped on,
  seemingly in very slow motion.
  Will held Allie tightly and very securely in his arms, and he was beaming
  with joy. I knew the happiness was real, and I loved what I saw. I loved
  the look on their faces.
  Jennie came and stood beside me. "Aren't they just beautiful?" she said.
  "They look like a real dad and his boy. Oh, I love it now, Mom. I feel so
  good inside, so right."
   "Me too," I said and hugged Jennie.
        CHAPTER 56

 ILL TOLD ME everything; we told each other everything, until 1 believed that
 we had no secrets. One night he shared a terrifying story of his father
 beating his mother, then of his mother's words to him: "Only Mommy loves
 you. Only Mommy does. "
  Listening to Will talk, I'd never felt closer to him. Maybe I'd never felt
  close to anyone. Certainly, I'd never had so much pain revealed to me.
  "But she left me anyway," he said. There was a faraway look in his eyes.
  "So she didn't really love me, you know, Maggie."
  He could be so sweet, and at those times, I imagined the way he must have
  been as a boy. I could picture Will as a boy, as a beautiful, blue-eyed
  boy.
   "You think it was your fault she went away?"
  "Yes. But I'm getting better about it. I'm almost there. I couldn't have
  done this without you, Maggie. You,
208   James Patterson

 Jennie, Allie, just being around all of you has made all the difference."
  I reached to hold Will's hand. His pain, his love for me, seemed so clear.
  It was very touching. I could identify with his sad family history, and
  maybe, I was trying to help convert my own angry father through Will.
  "I'm not going to leave you," I whispered to Will. "Not ever."
   "Marry me, Maggie. Don't give up on me. Promise."
  In the morning, I told him I would marry him to prove it.
        CHAPTER 57

     AND MOUSE: the glorious game of love.
    A wanna-be model, Cam Matthias, took Will in
   her mouth and rolled her long tongue slowly over and around, eliciting a
   groan and a tightening of his hands in her flowing red hair.
  God, he was such a fabulous, untamed animal, Cam thought. He might actually
  be the most exciting man on earth. Someone had to be, right?
  "Oh," Will said. "Jesus, Cam. That feels wonderful. You feel wonderful."
  They had been going at it for hours. He was insatiable, and made her feel
  the same way. When she knew, or thought, he was about to come, she released
  him and lay on her back, placing his cock between her breasts, and once
  more increasing the pressure until she thought he could stand it no longer.
  He kept going though, on and on, like some kinky version of the Energizer
  bunny.
210   James Patterson

 The image made her howl with laughter. They both howled.
  Next, she knelt in front of the wall. She reached behind and spread the
  cheeks of her perfect bum.
  "Take your time, as if you wouldn't anyway," she said.
   It was the night before Will Shepherd's wedding.
CHAPTER 58

AT ONE O'CLOCK, three hours before "the wedding of the decade," two dozen
policemen in their finest navy blue uniforms and dress-white gloves took up
their positions at the main and service entrances of the Bradford home, as
well as down along Greenbriar Road. Their first assignment: clear Greenbriar
of the people from New York, Yonkers, and as far away as Tennessee and Texas,
who had come to catch a glimpse of Will and me on our wedding day.
  They would all be disappointed, I was afraid. Neither of us was interested
  in any publicity on the day of days, or even after, for that matter.
  By three o'clock, Greenbriar Road had been officially closed to the public
  by the Bedford police. The entire street was off-limits to everyone except
  those bearing the silver-engraved cards from Cartier that simply stated:
  Wedding Guest.
212   James Patterson

  I had carefully selected one of the out-of-view rear bedrooms as a dressing
  room, as well as for getting my head together before the madness started in
  earnest.
  Jennie (who treated my wedding as the greatest day in her life), the dress
  designer Oscar Echavarria, and two of his young associates were fussing
  over me that afternoon. Allie was content to stay close to our nursemaid,
  Mrs. Leigh, and watch the excitement. I wore a beautiful gown of creamy
  satin. Both the veil and train were of understated Belgian lace. A single
  strand of pearls encircled my throat. I couldn't have been any happier. I
  felt beautiful inside and out. Not only was Will healed, but so was I.
  "Elegant. Lovely. Perfection." Echavarria pronounced approval, eyeing me as
  though he were Leonardo and I the Mona Lisa. I found it hard to keep from
  laughing at his forgivable grandiosity.
   "You look cool, Mom," was Jennie's assessment.
  "Give me a few minutes alone," I finally said. "I just need a little time
  to take it all in."
   "Sure," Jennie said matter-of-factly.
  "C'est ga, everyone out," said Echavarria, clapping his hands like a ballet
  master.
  They left, but I held Jennie aside. "Thanks for putting up with me these
  past few weeks," I told her. "Now go get pretty. Only not too much prettier
  than the bride, okay?"
  "Don't worry about that. That couldn't happen even if I wanted it to, which
  I don't."
   "I love you," I whispered.
   "I love you even more, Mom."
                   HIDE & SEEK   213

 "Couldn't."
 "I do. Get it? I do."

 The wedding list read like a who's who. Will's manager and friend, Winnie
 Lawrence, would be there, of course. Nathan Bailford, Barry, my friends from
 Bedford, my sisters and their families from upstate, musicians and singers,
 soccer world people. And reporters and photographers from all the
 metropolitan papers, the local TV stations, the networks, People, Time-I
 swear, there almost seemed more strangers than friends.
  One of the final cars to arrive, I found out later, was a gleaming burgundy
  Maserati. Behind the wheel sat Peter O'Malley.
   Somehow, Peter had gotten an invitation.

 The door to the back bedroom suddenly swung open without so much as a knock.
 Now who could-
 "Will, you're not supposed to be-"
  "-Getting married so young?" Will smiled. He looked gorgeous in a black
  Brioni tuxedo, but he also looked refined. "True, but with a woman as
  beautiful as you, I couldn't resist. Do you know how much I missed you last
  night? I could probably show you."
  He took a step toward me. "Out. Don't you dare." I started to laugh. He
  could always make me laugh. "Out. I mean it."
  He continued on undaunted, and took me in his arms. His hand gently touched
  my breast. Nothing too provocative-and thus very provocative.
214   James Patterson

  "Ummmm," he said. "You are an eyeful. A handful too."
   "Will!"
   "Yes I am."
   "I love you so much. Now, go."
  "Enough, enough. I respect your wishes. I shall honor and obey, from this
  moment on."
  Obediently, he left the room, humming "Always." I smiled and thought it
  was the perfect prelude.
        CHAPTER 59

 A YOUNG PIANIST from Juilliard sent the first notes of "The Wedding March"
 crescendoing across the picture-book back lawn. The music, everything, sent
 a shiver up my spine. I loved my wedding day even more than I thought I
 would.
  Latecomers were hurried to their seats. Pesky radio and TV station
  helicopters whirled through the blue skies overhead, while television
  cameras never seemed to stop shooting. What seemed like a thousand
  photographers snapped photographs of the guests and the groom.
   I finally appeared.
  The bouquet of white calla lilies that I carried trembled in my arm.
  I was used to large crowds, but I felt a little nervous here. I spotted my
  few remaining relatives from upstate, smiling tentatively. Jennie, my
  bridesmaid, stood solemnly near the altar. Mrs. Leigh sat in the front row,
216   James Patterson

 holding Allie, who wriggled in her arms. Will's aunts were there, Eleanor
 and Vannie, one matronly, the other strikingly attractive.
  I did a double take! Will was standing next to them instead of at the altar
  . . . no, it wasn't Will, but Palmer. A smudged carbon copy.
  I was escorted down the flower-strewn grass aisle by Barry. He looked
  somewhat rumpled in his tuxedo, his flower already drooping from his lapel.
  "You're so beautiful. You actually have a glow," he whispered as he let go
  of my arm and turned to find his seat in the front row.
  I lifted my eyes to the white altar trimmed with pink and white roses. It
  was a bit too much, but it was beautiful. Will stood beside his best man,
  Winnie Lawrence. He was smiling at me.
  Never, for a single second, had I thought of turning back.

 "I now pronounce you husband and wife," the minister said. Will lifted my
 veil and gently kissed me. I could feel him through the tux. He always felt
 so good to me. The guests applauded. Camera flashes popped like yellow
 daisies all over the cascading lawn. Helicopters fluttered overhead. What an
 unforgettable scene!
  Stiff, comically correct Day Dean waiters burst from the rear of the main
  house, with silver trays bearing glasses of champagne. Others circulated
  iced shellfish and caviar, canapes of crabmeat, tea sandwiches, cheeses,
  fruits, pates. A great orchestra led by Harry Connick Jr. began to play
  from a highly polished pine-
                     HIDE & SEEK   217

 wood platform installed at the entryway to an enormous
 yellow-and-white-striped tent, which would later serve as the ballroom.
  Maybe not the wedding of the decade-but quite the blowout, I had to admit.
  I smiled, felt incredibly warm and fulfilled inside, and started to get
  into it.
  A huge, striped tent shaded half an acre of lawn between the main house and
  the duck pond. Inside, bands of children ran between the dining tables
  covered with pale yellow linen cloths, and graced with wicker centerpieces
  filled with bachelor's buttons, baby's breath, and yellow rosebuds.
  The music ranged from Strauss waltzes to Carly Simon to Patsy Cline. After
  a formal, sumptuous sitdown dinner, and just before dessert, Barry got up
  and sang his "Light of My Life" to a standing ovation from the guests,
  Will, and me.
  Then my friend Harry Connick spoke, his voice cutting through the
  continuing murmur of the crowd: "The bride will now cut the cake. Maggie,
  get your butt up here. C'mon, shy girl. Time to be the center of attention
  again."
  Waiters arrived bearing three gargantuan wedding cakes. On each stood a
  marzipan man in a soccer outfit and a marzipan woman leaning against a
  piano. Will and I mashed cake into each other's mouths, photos of our messy
  bites eventually making the covers of People and Paris Match, and all sorts
  of other ridiculous magazines.
  After dinner the tables were quickly removed. The band began to play. Will
  and I danced the first waltz (to
218   James Patterson

 "Starglow," one of my songs), then the other guests joined us.
  I was dancing with Barry when a man cut in, and two-stepped me away. "Are
  we finally happy now?" Peter O'Malley said. His speech was thick, whiskey-
  slurred, and he was as gray-faced as Patrick had been in death. Physically,
  he was a caricature of Patrick: recognizable features, but small beads for
  eyes, and fifty pounds heavier than his father had been.
  "Let go of me," I said. "Please, Peter." He was holding my arms so tightly
  I could feel his nails digging into my flesh.
  He was actually like a madman. "You cheap slut. Think how much you hurt me.
  You had my father, now you've got his house, his money, his death on your
  hands, a handsome new husband."
  I tried to pull away from the drunken man, but I couldn't. He wouldn't let
  me. "What do you mean, `his death on my hands'?" I finally said as quietly
  as I could.
  He shouted in my face. "You know fucking well what I mean!"
   "You think I killed him?"
  "I think his death was convenient for you. Let's leave it at that. Let
  everyone draw their own conclusions. I know I have, and I'm not alone."
  "He died of a heart attack, Peter. Please leave. You're drunk."
  "A heart attack induced by who? What did you do to him, Maggie? Fuck his
  heart out?"
  I pulled my right arm from his grasp and hit Peter as hard as I could. An
  open-hand slap. A wake-up call.
                   HIDE & SEEK   219

  His dark eyes blazed in thin slits. "Quite the little bitch, aren't you?"
  He suddenly let go of my arm. "You're nothing but a whore! Then you're
  probably used to this!"
  Red wine from a crystal goblet sprayed my face, blinding me momentarily.
  "And Shepherd's nothing but a stud. The whole world knows it." I heard
  Will's roar of rage, but I didn't see him throw himself at Peter, knocking
  him to the ground. He punched Peter again and again. Will was all over my
  tormentor.
  Winnie Lawrence finally pulled him off, separated the two interlocking
  bodies like a referee.
  "Maggie! Oh Christ, poor Maggie!" Will cried. "Are you all right?"
  Peter was struggling to his feet. His face was coated with blood, one eye
  already half-closed. "You took my father's money. His hotels. Everything!
  He was my father, and you killed him," he yelled.
  Two security men finally led him from the tent. Peter went unprotestingly,
  too weak to fight back. I could already imagine tomorrow's news headlines.
  Damn.
  Will took me in his arms, and gently wiped my face with his handkerchief.
  "Oh, Maggie, I'm so sorry," he whispered. "Forget about Peter O'Malley. We
  have a life that's just beginning. I love you," he whispered.
   "I love you, Will."
   I really did.
        CHAPTER 60

" ILL? IS IT you? The old married man? The reformed ex-bachelor?"
      " 'Tis indeed, Winnie. What's the good news from the Left Coast? Do I
      have an acting career or not?"
  "You're not going to believe this, but Michael Caputo said yes. He loves
  your ass, and your mind. He thinks you're a natural."
  The Thrill. It returned in an exhilarating rush for Will. He sprang from
  his chair with a loud whoop, though there was no one home to hear it.
   "Tell me everything," he said.
  "Well, for starters, it's the lead in Primrose. That's right, the lead. The
  character's named North Downing, but despite that it's an okay script. More
  important, it'll be a huge hit at the box office."
  Primrose was the country's number one best-seller, a hundred plus weeks on
  the Times list, a saga of passionate
                   HIDE & SEEK   221

 love set in the early part of the century. Michael Lenox Caputo was the
 director who had bought it for a small fortune; he was producing it himself.
 As Selznick did with Gone with the Wind, he had instituted a very noisy,
 nationwide search for an unknown to play the lead, this time a male.
 Box-office draw was guaranteed by the novel's phenomenal popularity and also
 its female star, Suzanne Purcell, a tempestuous actress whose on-screen fire
 was reportedly matched in her private life.
  "Good going. Jesus," Will said. "I didn't think we had a chance. Maybe I am
  an actor, after all."
  "It was you. You look hot on film, and you can act. Caputo saw it
  instantly. Even the novel's asshole author likes you."
  "Still, if you hadn't pushed me, I'd never have had the nerve to
  screen-test for the great Caputo. When does the damn thing shoot? Where?
  I'm stir-crazy anyway."
   "Australia. And it starts soon, very soon."
  "Australia? For an American epic? What's that all about?"
  "It's winter in Australia when it's summer here," Winnie said, as though
  that explained anything.
   "So what?" Will asked.
   "So . . . welcome to Hollywood!"
CHAPTER 61

 THE CAST OF Primrose had been assembled, all except for Suzanne Purcell, who
 was not to appear in the first scene and would make her own entrance, in her
 own style, on her own time schedule. She was, after all, the star. It was
 5:30 A.M. on the gentle, rolling plains of Perth.
  This was the start of principal photography: scene one, take one;
  cameraman, Nestor Keresty; director, Michael Lenox Caputo. Everyone had
  huge hopes for the film. Maybe four hundred million, worldwide. The novel
  was still number one.
  Will, Caputo, and several technicians were huddled inside the poorly heated
  trailer that served Will as a dressing room. They were all waiting for the
  temperamental genius Nestor Keresty to settle on his lightingthe proper
  play of fill, and front and back lights, to
                   HIDE & SEEK   223

 capture the feeling of early morning in a Texas farmyard. High art, indeed.
  In the film's first scene, North Downing was to deliver a baby mare, by
  lamplight, inside a dilapidated barn. The scene had hooked book readers,
  apparently by the millions. North Downing was the "last American cowboy,"
  but a sensitive lover and husband as well.
  "I want you to make me a promise," Will said, drawing Caputo aside. "This
  is a serious fucking promise, Michael. I'll hold you to it."
  The director frowned. He had been asked to promise weird things by actors,
  and this boy was a neophyte. Still, he was a very large and powerful
  neophyte, who reportedly had quite a temper. "Shoot. Anything at all,
  Will."
  "I want you to make me grunt and sweat bullets out there today. When I
  carry that baby horse, I want it to look hard, as though I'm in as much
  physical pain as the mare was. I want you to turn me into an actor."
  Caputo smiled, and tried not to laugh. He bit his lip, hard. No one had
  ever asked him anything like this before. "So you don't think good looks
  are enough?"
   "No. Not even close. Christ, Tom Cruise looks good."
  "That's all the audience will care about, Will. Trust Me. Style is reality
  these days."
  "I don't give a damn about the audience, never have. I was the best there
  is in football. Now I want to be the best there is on the screen. I will be
  too. Count on it."
  Michael Caputo stared at Will, stunned by his preposterous, naive request.
  He's like a boy, Caputo thought, but all he said was "I'll try my best."
224   James Patterson

  "That's all I ask. I'll do the rest. You're going to eat that condescending
  smile you gave me a minute ago."
  "I'll be happy to do it," Caputo said, then he smiled again. Actually, he
  liked Will Shepherd, and wanted to see him do well.

 The very first scene called for North Downing to deliver the foal, then
 carry it across the barnyard to his young wife, Ellie. This morning, they
 would shoot only the birthing sequence and North's walk across the farmyard.
 Later, they would film the actual presentation to Ellie.
  It took them twenty-two takes. Will was awkward at first, despite numerous
  rehearsals, concentrating more on Caputo's instructions than on the subtle
  emotion necessary for the potentially mawkish scene.
  Caputo drove him mercilessly, trying to pull out real feeling, and Will
  found himself sweating so much he had to have new makeup after every take.
  They got it right on take twenty-one; they got it perfectly.
   "One more time," Caputo said. "For insurance."
  Will stood behind the horse, delivered the foal with a grunt of pleasure,
  and, smiling, picked it up lovingly in his arms. Staggering, he left the
  barn, made his way across an icy patch, and entered a door in a facade
  meant to simulate the front of the Downing house.
  Will stopped. He started to smile, then to laugh out loud. Jesus, this was
  rich. This was the best.
  There was a woman standing at the back of the facade, just out of range of
  the cameras. When Will entered, carrying the foal, she ripped open her
  blouse, exposing her breasts to him.
                   HIDE & SEEK   225

  He nearly dropped the foal. There was incredible amusement and invitation
  in her eyes.
  Maggie, he thought. She'll never forgive me. Screw this woman, and you're
  screwing yourself. She'll ruin your life.
  But he couldn't stop looking at her. She was beautiful. Breathtaking,
  actually. And he had seen enough of the world's famous beauties to know.
   "Welcome," said Suzanne Purcell, "to Primrose."
CHAPTER 62

 I COULD STAY with Will in Australia for only a week. Barry kept pleading
 with me to finish the new album, and eventually I had to agree to come back
 to work.
  As my car pulled up to 1311 Broadway, I thought back to a storm-blown
  morning years before. Look how far you've come, I told myself, and I had to
  smile. A singing star. Happily married. Occasionally a sex junkie. Not
  bad.And not the same unsure and frightened Maggie who came to Barry for a
  job, any job.
  Today, Barry popped out of his office to greet me. He brought me coffee.
  "Come across the street with me to the studio. I've been working on several
  arrangements for `Just Some Songs.' Wait till you hear them."
   "Barry, I've got two new songs. From Australia."
   "The arrangements first, then I'll listen. You look
                   HIDE & SEEK  227

 great, Maggie. Still glowing. Marriage is obviously agreeing with you."
  "I'm happy, Barry. Really happy," I told him. Of course, Barry would never
  admit that he might have been wrong about Will, or anything else, for that
  matter.
  Once in the studio, it was business as usual between the two of us. Nothing
  had changed; we loved our work and the chance to be together. The tough
  challenge was to make each album-each song in each album-different and
  better. We didn't always succeed, but we always tried like hell.
  The work went extremely well that day. I was pleased with Barry's
  arrangements (I almost always was, though I was far more critical than I
  had been when we first met); he loved one of my songs and liked the other.
  The album was going to be a very good one.
  It was midafternoon by the time we knocked off, and I decided to do some
  shopping. A reward. A splurge. Then home to the kids. I was cooking
  tonight. Then we planned to watch Forrest Gump, on video. We'd seen it only
  six times already. Maybe I'd make Bubba's Shrimp for dinner. That would
  give Jennie a laugh.
  I found a little doodad I wanted at Bergdorf Goodman and left the store a
  little after three-thirty. Fifth Avenue was filled with taxis, buses, the
  usual pedestrian parade. I didn't see my car and driver right away.
   Then, trouble.
  A TV camera suddenly surfaced like a submarine scope out of the street
  crowd. Two young bearded apes from Fox News jockeyed up to me. Bad-looking
  guys. Real neanderthals from the look of them.
228   James Patterson

  "Maggie. Maggie Bradford," one of them shouted. Instinctively, I moved
  away, desperately searching for my car.
  "Maggie. Over here, Maggie. Is it true you and Will were having
  difficulties in Australia? Is that why you came home?"
  I could hear the whirr of a camera. Pedestrians stopped to look at us. Oh,
  damn these TV people, I thought. Get a life. Let me live mine.
   "No." I was curt with them.
  "We hear he's gotten real close to Suzanne Purcell. That's the buzz. Know
  anything about that?"
  My stomach spasmed. "No." Will and I knew there would be rumors about him
  and Suzanne. If there weren't, the studio would probably start them.
   "So you didn't see this photograph?"
  "No. No comment. Bye now. Nice sharing vicious rumors with you."
  I couldn't push through the crowd and get away from them. Where was the
  car, for God's sake?
  "The photograph, Maggie." A pushy, little bald man from Channel Five was
  shoving a microphone in my face. "It was in all the papers. Will and
  Suzanne Purcell. Very cozy. You didn't see it?"
  I shoved him aside, pushing him back into the cameraman. I saw my car
  finally, and I ran and shut myself inside.
  It wasn't until we were gliding through the green woods near home that I
  began to relax. The nerve of those insensitive bastards! It wasn't the
  first time I had clashed with a reporter. It had happened in Rome and
                   HIDE & SEEK   229

 once in Los Angeles. What happened to privacy ? I asked myself. Who do they
 think they are?
  I wished Will were home right now. In the car with me.
  Oh, Will, forget about being a big movie star. Let's just disappear and be
  nobodies for the rest of our lives.
  Will and Suzanne. The picture. Could it possibly be true? No, l didn't
  believe it. Wouldn't believe it. I felt that 1 knew Will by now. ! was sure
  that I did. The picture was just more paparazzi crap. It wasn't the first,
  wouldn't be the last.
  In the car, I dismissed the thought. But it came back to me when I went to
  bed that night. It kept me awake through the witching hours, two and three
  in the morning.
   Will and Suzanne Purcell.
   No!
   Damn the paparazzi anyway.
        CHAPTER 63

 THERE WERE NO paparazzi for this particular moment.

SCENE: Ellies bathroom. Beautiful morning light everywhere. Ellie is soaking in
 a tin tub, covered with thick suds, occasionally brushing them aside so she
 can look at her stomach. North enters, looking concerned.

  CUT TO: Ellie's reaction. She looks at her husband with shame. North kneels
  next to the tub. He's not like most men. He understands the way his wife
  thinks.

NORTH: Why have you been avoiding me, Ellie? Ever since our baby, you won't let
  me come near you. This isn't the way we wanted it.
                HIDE & SEEK   231

ELLIE: 'Cause I'm not pretty now. That's why. (She begins to cry.) I'm never
 going to be pretty again. That baby ruined my body. It's made me an old
 woman.
NORTH: Nineteen isn't old. You're as pretty as ever. You're my beautiful wife.
 (He starts to brush away the mounds of suds.) You're Ellie, and that will
 never change.
ELLIE: Don't! Please . . . oh North, please.
NORTH: Hush. (He swipes away the suds, revealing her breasts.) See, you're very
 pretty. You're so pretty, I almost can't stand it.
ELLIE: I'm swollen, like a suckling pig. I ache and I feel old, even if I'm not.
NORTH: (Picking up a washcloth and tenderly caressing her body with it, his hand
 hidden by the suds as it goes beneath her breasts): Not here, you're not. Or
 here . . . Or especially here.

 CUT TO: Ellie's reaction. She is obviously

 excited by his touch. She smiles, and the smile
 is beautiful. Ellie is as beautiful as North says
 she is.

NORTH (Continuing to caress): My beauty. My Ellie.
ELLIE (Breathing hard): Am I still? Am I?
NORTH: Yes, you are. You always will be. I told you that, and it will never
 change. Even when you do become an old woman.
232   James Patterson

  CLOSE UP: Ellie and North kiss, more and more passionately. Suddenly the
  room is extremely steamy.

  CAMERA: Moves down to show the bathwater moving as North's hidden hand
  gets more and more agitated.

  "Cut!" Michael Lenox Caputo's voice knifed through the stillness of the
  scene. "Great take. Wrap it. I have to go masturbate now!"
  Neither Will nor Suzanne Purcell stopped though. The technicians kept their
  cameras rolling, and would soon have film of the two stars that they could
  sell to any of the tabloid TV shows.
  Will and Suzanne seemed to notice nothing around them. She had stepped out
  of the tub and, naked, unashamed, was laughing and pulling at his belt. He
  picked her up and, mouth on hers, in a kiss no patron of Primrose would
  ever see, carried her to his trailer. Will slammed the door behind him with
  his foot.
   The werewolf of Perth.
        CHAPTER 64

" HAT HAPPENS NOW?" Will asked. Principal shooting on Primrose was finished;
 only editing and dubbing remained to be done.
  He and Suzanne were walking together on the dusty plain. He hadn't meant to
  get involved, but as they say, shit happens. Suzanne was truly one of the
  most beautiful women in the world, and Will had always appreciated the very
  best.
  "I go back to California, you become Mr. Maggie Bradford, just like you
  were."
  Will blinked. The words stung. "And what we had out here?" he asked
  Suzanne.
  "We had some fine times, didn't we? You're good, Will. One of the best."
  "One of?" He snorted out a laugh. "You're beautiful and you're a
  comedienne."
   Suzanne laughed as well. "Yes, I have a brain, Will.
234   James Patterson

 Oh, sweetheart. I've had the best! Actors, other athletes, ski bums. But you
 are very good. No worry there."
  He could feel ancient demons. Roused from sleep, they began to claw upward,
  from the pit of his stomach to his brain. Jesus, he hated to lose. He
  couldn't bear failure.
  "This picture will make me a star," he said, fighting to keep his voice
  level. "Then I won't be `Mr. Maggie Bradford.' "
  "I made you the star," Suzanne Purcell said. "Don't forget that. You really
  shouldn't let this insane business get to you anyway. It can, you know."
  Destroy her, he thought. But not now. Take it easy, Will. Go slow. You
  learned your lesson in Rio.
  He kept silent. They turned back toward the hotel. "One last time?" he
  asked.
  Suzanne grinned and reached for him. "Now that's the proper spirit. Your
  room or mine?"
   "Yours," he said. "We'll use your toys."

 Suzanne Purcell had no idea how she had gotten herself into this mess. She
 felt as though she were having an out-of-body experience.
  The moment she'd stepped into her hotel room, Will had hit her from behind.
  Not that she could tell what had happened at first. She'd felt a hard
  wallop between her shoulder blades. Then the blue shag rug seemed to be
  rushing up at her face. She hit the floor hard, and lost consciousness.
   And she awoke like this.
                   HIDE & SEEK   235

  He'd tied her with jump ropes that she used as part of her exercise
  routine. He'd gagged her with her own bra, and more rope.

   Then he'd put her in the bathtub.
   That was when it started to get bad, unbelievably bad.
  He cut both her wrists and watched her blood flow into the tub and down the
  drain.

   He just sat there and watched her bleed.
  Suzanne struggled wildly against the ropes, and made strange, muffled
  sounds.
  She had tried to scream, but the gag was too tight. Finally, she decided to
  plead with Will-using her eyes.
  "Oh, I see," he finally spoke to her. "Now you want to talk things through.
  You probably even want to take back some of those nasty remarks you made
  outside? Am I right, Suzy? You see, 1 have a brain too."
  She nodded her head as best she could. She was losing a lot of blood, and
  she was starting to feel woozy-as if she might pass out.
  "I know this isn't an authentic suicide, but it's like one. The next best
  thing," Will said. "It's fascinating to watch someone die. You can't
  imagine. Your eyes are amazing to watch right now. About a thousand
  thoughts coursing through your brain, right? You can't believe that you,
  the great Suzanne Purcell, are about to die. It's too weird, right? Your
  life can't just end like this, right? It's all in your eyes, Suzanne.
  Extraordinary."
   Will suddenly stopped talking.
  He just watched her-bleed. It was definitely like a suicide. Like his
  father'-
  
  236   James Patterson

 When Michael Caputo came to Suzanne's hotel the following morning, he wanted
 to wish her a safe trip home, and thought, maybe, he might get lucky.
 Suzanne didn't answer the house phone or respond to his knock.
  He finally got the manager to open her door. Drugs, he thought. Damn her.
  Why did nearly every beautiful woman have to be a head case?
  He found Suzanne naked and badly cut, unconscious but still alive. She was
  handcuffed to the hotel bed. It would be half a year before she could act
  in another movie, and her close-ups would never be the same.
  Suzanne swore to Caputo, and then to the police, that it hadn't been Will.
  She would say no more than that. She wouldn't press charges.
   Not a word to anybody.
  He had scared her that badly. She believed that Will was capable of murder,
  of anything.
  BooK FouR
Dark Side of the
Moon
                                  
        CHAPTER 65

  AM NOT a murderer.
   I never murdered anyone. Or so I've begun to tell
 myself, over and over again.
  As we entered the courthouse everyone was staring at me, and I couldn't
  catch my breath. I felt I must be going mad. Maybe I am.
  Policemen from the prison, as well as my faithful cadre of expensive
  lawyers, had me surrounded, penned in, claustrophobic. I remembered how it
  had been in the crawl space under the house at West Point. All the horror
  stories seemed to be coming together.
  It was pouring, and hundreds of people, mostly with black umbrellas, but a
  few with blue and red ones, had turned out to catch a glimpse of the
  so-called famous murderess.
  It destroyed me to know that my children would see me like this-in
  handcuffs, wearing my scarlet M.
240   James Patterson

  We marched into the courthouse and upstairs to a room where Judge Andrew
  Sussman was waiting. The judge was a large man, about six foot six, with a
  saltand-pepper beard that he allowed to grow in wild and bushy. He was
  probably in his mid-forties, and reminded me of a rabbi. That was a good
  sign; it made me think that he would be just and fair. That was all I
  wanted.
   Justice. Fairness. The American way, right?
  Judge Sussman was holding the formal murder indictment in a solemn-looking
  black folder. My lawyers had told me what to expect-but I couldn't get used
  to it.
  What in the name of God was I doing here? How could this be happening to
  me?
  I wasn't the bad person in all of this-4 was the victim. How could I be on
  trial for murder?
  The press who would be covering the murder trial were already in the
  courtroom. Not one, but several artists were on hand to draw versions of
  the way I looked today. How goddamn artistic!
  I stood with my chief attorney, Nathan Bailford, in front of the bench.
  This couldn't be happening to me. None of it seemed real.
  "Good morning," Judge Sussman said in a civil tone, as though I'd come
  about a parking ticket, or a violation of the Bedford town code on keeping
  the grass cut short at the curbside around my house.
  "Good morning, Your Honor." I was surprised that I could speak so
  confidently, that I could get the words out, that I could be civil too.
  Judge Sussman held up the black folder for me to see.
                    HIDE & SEEK   241

  "Mrs. Bradford, I have here the indictment from the grand jury. You've seen
  it?" he asked. He talked plainly and simply, as though I were a young
  child, but accused of something very serious.
   "Yes, I have, Your Honor."
  "You've read it, and had time to discuss the indictment with Mr. Bailford
  or your other attorneys?" he asked next.
   "We've talked about the indictment."
  "You understand the charge against you? That you are accused of the murder
  of your husband, Will Shepherd?"
  "I've read the indictment. I understand the charge against me."
  He nodded, like I was a good student, or an especially good defendant. "And
  do you plead guilty, or not guilty, to the charge of murder?"
  I looked him square in the eye. I knew it didn't matter, but I needed to do
  this anyway.
   "I am not guilty of murder. I plead not guilty"
        CHAPTER 66

 NE:  K MY Central Park. Will and I had
  r
YO b ma ied for nearly a year.
    "Laggie , can you see anything? I can't see a damn thing. Too many
    bloody trees in this bloody park."
  Will, Jennie, and I were sitting in the fuzzy-gray darkness of a stretch
  limousine. Nervously, Will lit a cigarette, the match flaring blue and
  gold, lighting his face. He raked his fingers back through his thick curls.
  How pale he is. Tired. Scared, I thought as I watched him. This is his
  World Cup all over again, isn't it? He needs to prove something tonight.
  Well, I can understand that.
  "What are they doing at the head of this blasted, interminable line?"
  "I can't see," I told him. "Clearing away pedestrians, I suspect."
  "See how popular your movie's going to be?" Jennie added support.
                   HIDE & SEEK   243

  The limo was stuck, engine idling, at the Columbus Circle entrance to the
  park. We were fifth in a shadowed row of Rollses, Bentleys, and Lincolns
  bearing dignitaries, the producer/director, and the stars.
  Finally, the caravan began to move, making its way down Central Park South,
  then onto Seventh Avenue and across Fifty-fourth Street to the Ziegfeld
  Theatre, and the world premiere of Primrose.
  With each turn of the limo, Will's anxiety increased; his hand, when I took
  it to comfort him, was sweaty, and as soon as he finished his cigarette he
  lit another. He rarely smoked, but tonight he couldn't seem to stop. He
  wasn't himself.
   "It'll be all right," I said. "It's just pregame jitters."
  "All right? In fifteen minutes the critics are going to watch me on the
  screen, thirty feet tall, nowhere to hide, saying `Top of the Morning,
  Ellie. That's a wonderful name for your horse. You take care of her, girl,
  just as you would your very own child."'
  991t's just a story, Will. People want it to sound like that. They want to
  escape from real life sometimes."
  "Not the New York critics. They'll see it for the abominable shit it is,
  see me for the fake I am, and-poofthere goes my short-lived acting career."
   "No way," Jennie told him.
   "Way," Will joked with her at least.
  The caravan stopped. Suddenly there were chubby, hairy fingers rapping at
  the limousine's side window. I recognized a chubby hairy face and released
  the door lock. "Trouble," I whispered, "always comes in pairs."
244   James Patterson

  "Caputo!" Will grinned as the director squeezed his wide body into the
  backseat.
  "They're going to crucify us," Caputo said, his face mournful. "I just know
  it. My instincts are always right. Aren't my instincts right, Will? Comes
  from growing up in Brooklyn. People from Brooklyn have great instincts."
   He was so comically miserable I had to laugh.
  "People are expecting big things from this film," Caputo said. "As well
  they should for fifty mil-but Will and I both know they're getting sheep
  shit.Australian sheep shit. Not even the good stuff."
  Will laughed at the director's humor, which was nearly as dark as his own.
  "Where's your wife?" I asked. "She doesn't seem to have had any more luck
  calming you down than I've had with Will."
  "Eleanor's in the car ahead of us with my saintly mother. They can't stand
  me when I get meshuga like this. They kicked me out of my own car. So I'm
  here. Somebody's got to take me to the theater."
  I opened the car door, and pulled Jennie along with me.
   "Where are you going?" Will asked.
  "To join Eleanor, and Michael's mother. You two artistes deserve to be
  alone together."
        CHAPTER 67

 REJOINED WILL when we reached the Ziegfeld, and we got through the
 searchlights, the screaming
  crowds, the reporters, the studio executives, and settled ourselves into
  our seats of honor.
  Neither Jennie nor I had ever been to a world premiere. It was actually
  great fun. Everyone looked so wonderfully inappropriate in their tuxes,
  dark suits, and party gowns just to go see a movie.
  In about fifteen minutes, the picture started and the credits rolled. WILL
  SHEPHERD. There his name was, as large as Suzanne Purcell's. Even before
  the title appeared the crowd applauded, and I heard Will grunt. I'm not
  sure whether it was from fear or pleasure.
  Then the movie started, and I was caught up in the gorgeous shots of the
  American West. Nestor Keresty had seen beauty in the landscape that I had
  not and had made his art come alive on the screen.
246   James Patterson

  Will delivered the foal, carried it to his young wife (she looks closer to
  thirty than nineteen, I noted with satisfaction), and delivered his dreaded
  line.
  The audience was quiet. No one snickered. Will finally relaxed in the seat
  beside me. Jennie flashed him a thumbs-up. "See?" she whispered. "Told you
  so."
  The movie went on for a little more than two hours. It was fast-paced,
  hokey, lush, romantic. I found myself enjoying it-until North came up on
  Ellie in the tub and began to wash her.
  The way Will looked at her was the way he looked at me when we made love.
  It didn't look as though he were acting; it was desire in his eyes, lust.
  His hand disappeared under the suds, but I sensed, just by the way his arm
  moved, what he was really doing.
  My heart clutched. Suddenly I couldn't breathe. I had to sit up very
  straight in my theater seat.
  They've been to bed together, I thought, and a dull ache spread through my
  body. I remembered the rumors in the press, and Will's firm denial of them.
  They were lovers off-screen, weren't they? Oh please, don't let that be
  true.
  I made myself look at Will then. He was watching the screen intently, his
  mouth half open-reliving it!
  When the interminable love scene finished, Will leaned over and tenderly
  kissed my cheek. "I was acting, Maggie," he whispered. "I know what you're
  thinking, but you're wrong. Maybe I am an actor."
  I sighed, breathed deeply, and began to feel a little better. Yes, maybe
  Will was an actor, after all.
        CHAPTER 68

 THE GLITZY PREMIERE party for Primrose was held privately upstairs at the
 Russian Tea Room on Fifty-seventh Street. A hundred or more people came over
 to shake Will's hand and tell him how superb he was. He recognized none of
 them, and only acknowledged their praise with an abstracted nod.
  He was somewhere else, actually. He was looking for his mother and his
  father. Their ghosts, he knew, would not miss an opportunity as grand as
  this.
  He was losing it big time, wasn't he? Yes, this was Rio all over again. It
  had all the makings of a disaster. He realized that he still hadn't learned
  how to live with defeat.

 A Caputo public relations flack came running into the restaurant around
 eleven-thirty. Everyone looked up. This was the moment they had been waiting
 for.
248   James Patterson

  "A hit!" he shouted, waving a copy of the New York Times. "A serious rave.
  Well, close enough."
  He handed the paper, already folded to the Entertainment Section, to his
  boss, then stood in the crowd which had gathered around Caputo to hear the
  producer/director read the important review aloud.
  "Michael Lenox Caputo, that master of blockbusters, who alone among our
  current crop of directors can still produce an engrossing, even
  enthralling, entertainment, has surpassed himself with Primrose, sure to be
  one of this season's biggest box-office successes . . . . "
  A cheer went up from the guests, especially the studio executives. A small
  band hired for the party played "Hail to the Chief." Caputo read on
  silently as the noise continued, then, when the room was once again quiet,
  flung the paper aside.
  "Modesty forbids me from reading more," he said. "You'll all have your
  copies in the morning. Meanwhile, let's have a celebratory drink! Let's
  have several drinks! We've earned it tonight."
  Waiters served expensive champagne. The paper, which had landed on a table
  near the entrance, went unheeded by everyone except Will, who picked it up
  with a casual air, and began to read, wondering why Caputo had not gone on.
   He found his own name almost immediately:
  Caputo is wonderfully served by his female star, Suzanne Purcell, who
  radiates innocence and sensuality in equal measures and, in her love
  scenes, manages
                   HIDE & SEEK   249

 to be both nineteen (which in real life she is not) and a woman comfortable
 with her sexual appetite. Her male counterpart, however, the former sports
 star Will Shepherd, is patently more comfortable on a soccer pitch than the
 beautifully photographed plains of Texas. He treats her as though she were
 some luscious morsel, no more important than a slice of New York cheesecake,
 or maybe even Texas cheesecake. Both stars look great without their shirts,
 but when Mr. Shepherd is actually called upon to act, whatever emotion is
 generated by the raw sex disintegrates into a pout, a forced smile, or
 glycerine tears applied by a makeup man, but not produced by the heart. Mr.
 Shepherd seems not to have much of one. He should not have been so hasty
 about giving up his athletic career.
  Will read no further. He turned toward the guests. He was feeling crazed
  and frantic, absolutely wild.
  He looked around the room, searching desperately for Maggie. She was
  standing by Caputo's side, smiling at something the director said. Well,
  fuck her.
  She was supposed to be my salvation, my soul mate. That's what her songs
  promised.
   But she told me 1 was wonderful in the film.
   She lied to me, goddamn her.
   Bitch!
  He hurled the paper down, and disappeared into the night. He feared that he
  was going mad, or maybe that he was already there. He needed to hear the
  cheers of
250   James Patterson

 the crowd, to feel that kind of absolute love, but there was nothing for
 him here.
  Will turned onto Seventh Avenue and he started to jog. Soon he was
  running at almost full speed. And still there was no cheering, no love
  anywhere in sight.

   The werewolf of New York, he thought.
   CHAPTER 69

BILL HAD BEEN missing for two days, and I felt as though my heart had
stopped.
     Winnie Lawrence and I looked for him frantically, checking local and
     New York hospitals and police stations, calling everybody at the party
     with whom he might have left. The kids were in a panic too.
  No one had a clue as to where Will might have gone. I remembered stories
  he'd told me about Rio-his disappointment. Something had happened down
  there that had changed him.
  I had read the Times movie review, of course, as soon as Will had left the
  room-read it with horror and anger as I realized what it would do to him,
  how it would hurt. I'd been there myself. I'd suffered through meanspirited
  reviews, some deserved, some not.
  Another high-profile failure. So many failures in his own eyes.
252  James Patterson

  I knew about that feeling too. I wanted to be there for him. But where was
  he? How could I help if I couldn't find Will?
  On the third day I called Barry again, and asked him to come to the house.
  "I feel a little out of control," I told him once he arrived. "I think I
  should be doing something more, but I can't think what it might be."
  "He'll come back," Barry said. "He has something good to come back to.
  Don't forget that."
  "You always overestimate me, and underestimate Will. He could have killed
  himself, Barry. I'm really afraid for him. His father committed suicide."
  "People like Will don't," Barry said. "He knows what he's doing."
  "How can you say that? You don't know Will. You don't know how hard he
  takes things."
  Barry shrugged. He didn't believe it. In a way, neither did I. I thought
  that Will would come back. He loved me, and he loved the kids. He had to
  come back.
  "I fantasize finding him in a ditch somewhere. Just because the police
  haven't found him-"
  "They haven't because he doesn't want to be found. I understand how
  terrible this is for you, but you're overreacting, Maggie. He's probably on
  the bender of benders. He'll come back when it's over."
  Would he? I was afraid that maybe I didn't know everything about Will. I
  hadn't been with him in Rio. Who had? What furies drove him then? Which
  were driving him now? Perhaps he wasn't telling me the truth.
                   HIDE & SEEK   253

 And how could he just disappear?
 I saw a picture in my mind-Will and Allie riding Fleas across the lot in
 back of our house. He had to come back. It was inconceivable that he
 wouldn't.
        CHAPTER 70

 A ND EVENTUALLY, HE did.
 I was awakened by a familiar hand touching my cheek, then lightly stroking
 my hair. Will was in the bedroom! I knew his touch so well. My heart jumped.
 Terror came over me.
  "Will!" I finally managed to whisper, my mouth dry with fear.
  I pushed his hand away and twisted myself out of bed. I faced him with a
  fury that had grown all the time he was away, and now was at its height.
  "Where have you been? Why didn't you call us? Oh God, Will. You think you
  can just come back like this?"
  There was something in his eyes that night-something so different, so
  strange. It was subtle, but I picked up on it. He didn't look like himself.
  He was dressed in unwrinkled black slacks and a black T-shirt. His hair was
  casual, the windblown
                   HIDE & SEEK   255

 look. His jaw was covered with a day or two's light growth.
  He smiled at me the way I'm sure he did at every woman in his life who had
  been angry at him, and whose forgiveness he needed. I wanted to scream at
  him, lash out at him with my fists.
  "I've been in London. I went to visit my aunt. She's like a second mother
  to me. Only she wasn't there, off on holiday with Aunt Eleanor, so I came
  home."

   Yes. Of course. To another mother. To me.
  "I'm sorry, Maggie, I shouldn't have done it, definitely should have
  called. You can't imagine how upset I was at that dreadful premiere. You
  have no idea what goes through my mind."
  No, I didn't, I couldn't, I didn't want to, but I tried to be patient, and
  to understand. Maybe, I tried too hard.
        CHAPTER 71

 ILL HAD BEGUN to wear two-hundred-dollar dark glasses almost all the time
 now-at night and inside the house. He called it his "film star phase."
  He used any and every excuse to be out of the house. In truth, he was
  afraid to be around Maggie and the kids. Maybe he didn't love them anymore,
  couldn't feel what he wanted to, but he didn't want to hurt them either.

   He didn't want to hurt them.
  He drove his new Mercedes convertible into New York one obnoxiously sunny
  afternoon. He felt hollow, as though there were absolutely nothing inside
  him. He'd spoken to his brother that morning, but of course Palmer wasn't
  any help. Palmer didn't want to have anything to do with him anymore.
   He wanted to end it all-maybe in a spectacular car
                   HIDE & SEEK   257

 crash. He pushed the Cabriolet to over a hundred on the narrow, winding Saw
 Mill. He was much too skillful a driver to crash though; his reflexes were
 perfect. Or maybe he didn't really want to die just yet.
 Why the hell should he want to die?
  Primrose was fucking soaring at the box office. The absurd movie had made
  it to number one, and had stayed there for weeks. Even more absurd, he was
  being touted as the next Eastwood, or Harrison Ford. What a goddamn idiocy.
  Hollywood made him ill with its amateurish reading of public tastes.
  In a single week, he'd gotten over a hundred loathsome scripts to read.
  He'd finally selected another bestseller, a powerful psychological thriller
  called Windchimes. He'd negotiated a contract for four million up front.
  Principal shooting was set to start that very day with the famed British
  director Tony Scott. It was going to be another hit movie, everyone was
  sure of it. It had all the "ingredients."
  Well, Will was sure it was going to be another piece of commercial garbage.
  He knew what was good, and what wasn't. He knew when he was fooling the
  world, and that it would catch up with him sooner or later.
  He couldn't stand the fucking reviews-because they were true, his critics
  were right. He was dog shit on a stick.
   He couldn't stand it anymore.
  He couldn't bear being Will Shepherd: the barely living legend, the
  ex-football great, "the incredible Hunk," "Mr. Maggie Bradford."
258   James Patterson

  As he entered New York City and saw the road signs for Broadway and 242d
  Street, Will floored it and took the convertible to over a hundred again.
  Traffic was thick, and he swerved from lane to lane as other drivers
  angrily honked their horns.
  I don't want to be Will Shepherd anymore, he was thinking as he
  maneuvered the car with one hand, then one finger, then look, ma, no
  hands.
   1 don't want to live like this.
   I can't.
  Was that what my father was thinking when he first went underwater?
  CHAPTER 72

HE WAS GOING underwater. Down, down, down.

The water was cool and dark. It wasn't so bad to drown.
  It was as "Will Shepherd" that he began the early evening at the Red Lion
  Inn in Greenwich Village. As Shepherd he consumed seven Scotches, neat; as
  Shepherd he was now playing out, for an audience of mostly inebriated
  admirers, his greatest triumph in a Manchester United uniform.
  Since he was buying drinks all around, the audience was with him, hanging
  on every word.
  "Will, Will," one of them chanted. An Englishman. A genuine fan, probably.
  "The Blond Arrow!" Will shouted back, his voice thick with irony that none
  of them seemed to appreciate.
  "The Blond Bum," another voice called out from the back of the barroom
  crowd.
260   James Patterson

  Will stopped in the middle of his story. It was just some punk wearing
  black leather and black jeans, acting the macho man. He glared at the
  asshole, thinking Eurotrash, thinking let's get it on.
  The punk made his way through the crowd. There were two friends with him.
  Will saw tattoos on their arms: falcons or eagles.
  "A stinking bum," the punk repeated, now facing Will as the spectators
  stepped back. His accent sounded German.
  "A pansy," one of the friends added. "A British fag." Definitely German.
  Anger, which had struggled for days to escape, now roared from Will's
  mouth. A string of curses exploded.
  The Euro-trash punk stepped forward, beckoning to Will. "Come get me, bum,"
  he said. "Come get me, you has-been."
  Where he got the chain he held, Will couldn't imagine. It really didn't
  matter. He charged the German anyway.
  The Blond Arrow charged blindly. He wanted a fight; any fight would do.

 He got out of the Red Lion with only cuts and bruises. Nothing important.
 Nothing fatal.
  He remembered that he was supposed to be on a movie set. Well, fuck that.
  This was a better psychological thriller anyway.
  Now came a series of white explosions in the shadows of an abandoned
  storage warehouse just off Hudson Street. A gang was beating up on him; he
  didn't know why. Could it have been something I said, mates? He
                   HIDE & SEEK   261

 was aware only of the intense pain of their kicks-to the head, to the
 stomach and groin, to the ribs-of the relentless agony each hard blow
 produced in his brain. Punishment, he thought as he was falling to the pave-
 ment.
  Fair and just punishment for his crimes, his sins, his entire life.
  His arms and legs were pinioned. He couldn't move a muscle. His face was
  smashed down onto the gritty concrete of the sidewalk. His nose was leaking
  blood. Then his legs were lifted off the ground like meat on a hook.
  And he was really pounded. He was battered, kicked, butted, until he was
  sure that every bone in his body had been broken. Strangely, he welcomed
  the physical pain. It told him that he was alive, right?
  His entire world was suddenly spinning out of control. It was all bright
  liquid red. Will felt he was falling, pitching forward into a black hole.
  He was being left to die on the New York streets, wasn't he?
   It wasn't so terrible, really.
  He was just following in the footsteps of his father. He'd always known it
  would end like this.
   Will Shepherd found dead in the street.
  Strange, weird-his last thought, his final image was of the dog he'd killed
  years ago. He had loved that dog.
        CHAPTER 73

 THIS HAD TO BE a nightmare. It couldn't be anything else. I wasn't really
 awake, was I?
 The Manhattan police came to my home around midnight. They broke the news
 politely, but their good manners and tact couldn't ease any of the pain. I
 had to sit down immediately. I thought I was going to pass out or maybe be
 sick. I was in a state of shock.
  I finally was able to call Winnie Lawrence. He lived close by. The two of
  us went to St. Vincent's Hospital in New York.
  I was permitted to see Will only briefly-he was sleeping, heavily sedated,
  his face swathed in heavy bandages. He looked horrible.
  I felt as though I were in a dream. Whatever was happening, couldn't be.
  What had happened to the man I had married, the person I loved? This badly
  beaten person couldn't be Will!
                   HIDE & SEEK   263

  We were approached by Detective Nicolo, the police officer who had come to
  Bedford with the news. I didn't want to talk to anyone, to see anyone.
  "He's pretty beaten up, but it looks worse than it is," said Nicolo. "The
  doctors say it'll be a couple of weeks before he can get out of the
  hospital. I'm sorry, Mrs. Bradford. We don't know how it happened. Or who
  did it. No witnesses have come forward."
  "He was supposed to start shooting a film yesterday," Winnie Lawrence said
  "Good luck." The detective smiled wryly. "If the part is Rocky V, he might
  be able to manage it okay."
   "Jesus!" Winnie said, and headed for a pay phone.
  Detective Nicolo turned to me. He looked like Al Pacino, only with a larger
  hooked nose. His white hair was slicked back. "Do you have any idea why he
  might have been attacked, Mrs. Bradford? Do you know if he was with anyone
  last night?"
  I shook my head "I'm sorry. I don't, detective. I'm not myself right now.
  Sorry, sorry." I fought back tears.
  Nicolo clucked and nodded sympathetically. "He wasn't home with you last
  night then?"
   "I expected him. He didn't show up."
  What was the detective implying? Why am I protecting Will? I wondered.
  Because he's my husband, and I love him.
  "It'll be hard to find the men who beat him up." Nicolo had taken out a
  black notebook; now he put it away. "If Mr. Shepherd can't describe them,
  there's not much we can do. I'll come back here as soon as he's able to
  talk. I'll stay in touch with you."
264   James Patterson

  He shook my hand and left, telling me to call him if I had any information.
  An agitated Winnie joined me in the waiting room.
  "They're going to replace Will," he said. "They say they can't afford to
  wait until he recovers from this. Whatever the hell happened to him?"
  I shrugged, feeling numb and cold all over. It was neither good news nor
  bad. A frightening thought crossed my mind. I didn't know who my husband
  was.
   "He'll be devastated about the film," Winnie said.
  "I don't know, Winnie." I felt a wave of sadness, an overlay on my fatigue.
  "I think maybe he'll be relieved."
        CHAPTER 74

 DROVE BACK to Bedford with Winnie Lawrence. Our nursemaid, Mrs. Leigh, was
 there with the kids.
  Fortunately, everyone was still sleeping when I got home.
  I didn't want to explain about Will; I wasn't sure that I could explain,
  that I understood.
  I loved Will, but maybe he'd fooled me; maybe he was a good actor when he
  wanted to be. I had thought I could help him, that I was helping him. My
  mother had made the same mistake with my father. Oh God, I didn't know what
  to think. I wanted to go up into the attic-and just write songs again.
  I sat in the den, staring out onto the grounds. The morning sun was up and
  birds were chirping everywhere. But unpleasant images were flying inside my
  head-bad ones. I remembered a movie with Julia Roberts called Sleeping with
  the Enemy. I felt as though I were
266   James Patterson

 in it, or maybe this was Gaslight. Or maybe I was dreaming. Please. Let this
 be a dream.
  I don't know who my husband is, I kept thinking. Is that possible? Is that
  what's happening? What is Will doing to himself? What is he doing to all of
  us?
  Allie wandered into the den and found me there. I did my best to act as
  though nothing were the matter.
  "I've been waiting, waiting, waiting for you to get up and come see me," I
  said to him. I patted my lap for him to come sit. He ran to me and jumped
  into my arms.
  I held Allie, and kissed and hugged him. He did the same for me. He had no
  idea how important that was to me right now. I felt as though I might start
  stuttering again. My chest seemed to collapse in on me. I loved holding him
  like this though. We'd done it every single morning since he was born. I
  don't think we'd missed a day.
  Suddenly Allie turned to me. He squinted as he looked up into my eyes.
  "What's wrong, Mommy?" my little boy said. "What's wrong?"

 Later that morning, I returned to the dreary hospital in downtown New York.
 I was allowed to see Will again. He was sitting up, still incredibly dazed,
 and sipping juice through a straw.
  The part of his face not covered by bandages was purplish; his eyes were
  horrible thin slits, his lips puffy, as though they had been stung by a
  swarm of bees again and again. He looked like one of those poor men who
                   HIDE & SEEK   267

 sleep on sidewalk gratings all over New York. My hus-
 band looked like that.
  Will reached a hand toward me when I came in. I felt my heart soften. I
  couldn't help it. "Maggie . . ." he whispered.
  I didn't take his hand, but instead stood looking at him. I hated holding
  back, but I had to.
   "Maggie . . . forgive me. Please forgive me."
   "How can I, Will?" I finally spoke to him.
  He began to cry like a little boy. Will curled himself into a tight ball,
  a fetal position, and he wept. He seemed so pathetic, horribly alone, and
  I couldn't imagine what was the matter with him.
  My heart nearly broke, but I didn't reach out to comfort Will. This time,
  I couldn't.
        CHAPTER 75

 BAD THOUGHTS HAD been drifting through Will's head ever since he'd come
 home, but while he was in the hospital as well.
  It frosted him that Maggie was still a huge star, and he was a nothing. But
  most of all, it incensed Will that she was happy. Maggie, Jennie, and Allie
  were a selfcontained unit. They didn't need him. They functioned
  beautifully on their own.
  Bad thoughts. Constantly. Morning, noon, and especially at night.
  Like the one about Allie having an accident while they were out riding
  horses.
  Or pretty Jennie-lots to fantasize about there. Jennie was sweet on him
  anyway. She was like all the others, wasn't she? They wanted him,
  desperately, until they discovered who he really was.
   Palmer was as bad as the others, maybe worse. His
                   HIDE & SEEK   269

 own brother was taking money from him to keep a few harmless secrets.
 Well, at least Palmer had always been up front about being a worthless
 bastard Maggie was the real problem, and he didn't know what to do about
 her. Lots of bad thoughts though. Lots of possibilities. None of them very
 nice. Like? What if I killed myself, as my father did? What if I took it
 one step further? What if, what if, what if . . . .
        CHAPTER 76

 WWATCH CLOSELY NOW. Please. Try to listen to each word, to every nuance.
 This is where the ride starts to get real tricky, where I began to seriously
 question my sanity. Just thinking about it made me feel tense and uncertain
 and sick to my stomach.
  Am I guilty? Am I the murderer they say 1 am? Or am 1 the victim here?

 "I'm going to San Francisco. I have to go, Will," I told him a few weeks
 after his "incident" in New York. He was still acting strange, but he was
 good around Jennie and Allie, so I didn't complain too much.
  "What?" Will barely glanced up from the TV He seemed to get lost in
  whatever he was doing lately. Sometimes he looked a thousand miles away,
  spaced out, when I tried to talk to him. I didn't understand what
                   HIDE & SEEK   271

 was happening. How could I? There was an invisible wall between us.
  "They've asked me to do a benefit concert at Candlestick Park, and I've
  accepted. I need to sing again, Will. It's been too long."
  He clicked off the TV and turned to face me. He'd been watching the game in
  a T-shirt and shorts, which always made me think that he was waiting to be
  called in from the bench. He was still amazingly fit, and looked ready to
  play. "Without asking if I wanted to come along?" he said.
   "It's probably best if I go alone. Barry'll be there-"
   "That asshole."
  "-and we'll be releasing the record as soon as we can after the
  performance." I had no inclination either to sugarcoat my plans, or to say
  what I really felt, which was "at least I tell you when I'll be gone."
  "So you decided to go to California, just casual-like." His face was
  turning red. His eyes protruded, wild. One of these times, he's going to go
  off, isn't he? I said to myself.
  He turned on me in a fury. "What am I anyway? Some bloody footman in this
  house? Is that it, Maggie?"
  "Who said you were? I don't feel that way. God. What's happening to you?
  Can you please explain that to me?"
  "I say where you go, and don't go! Got that?" Suddenly, I could hear
  Phillip. Almost the exact same tone of voice.
   But I managed to stay calm, at least on the outside.
272   James Patterson

 "No you don't, Will. You can decide about your life, not mine."
  He rose from his chair and walked toward me. I held my ground. He stood
  motionless and glared at me with dark, suspicious eyes.
  I didn't like this. Not the look, not the threatening body language. I had
  never seen him like this, and suddenly I was afraid.
  His hand flashed out! There was no way I could avoid it.
  With a roar, he struck my cheek, strafing across the left side of my face.
  His backhand caught me a second time and sent me reeling backwards.
  It was as though two explosions had gone off inside my head. I couldn't
  believe it! He'd never hit me before. Never raised a hand, never
  threatened.
  "You're not going to San Francisco!" he screamed. "You're not leaving me,
  you bitch!"
  He drew back his hand for another blow, but then he stopped and let both
  hands fall to his sides.
  It was as though he'd had second thoughts, or come to his senses, almost as
  though he were another person.
  "Okay," he said. "Go to San Francisco. I don't care what you do, Maggie."
  I began to shake all over. I wouldn't let myself cry. Then, I began to
  tremble, badly. My legs felt useless. My arms too.
  "I'm taking Allie and Jennie," I told him. I could barely speak, or even
  look at Will. "You can't stop us. Don't try."
        CHAPTER 77

 BATTE". He hit me. This can't be me.
  The lyrics to my own song played in my head. I was staring vacantly through
  the jet's oblong window, my eyes climbing a mountain range of snow-white
  clouds. Beside me, Allie lay asleep, his furry head nudging my lap. Across
  the aisle, Jennie was listening to something with her airplane earphones.
  Both of them were happy to be going with me. They had no idea about my
  trouble with Will. The concert coincided with Jennie's vacation. Allie
  always wanted to be at my side, and usually was. The three of us were so
  close that we'd come up with the acronym JAM. Jennie, Allie, Maggie. We'd
  never changed it to include win.
 Coming off the plane, I was aware of the usual stares
274   James Patterson

 and hellos from total strangers. Some tried to get my autograph, nearly
 trampling us with their efforts; others reached out to touch me, as though
 the contact would somehow grant celebrity status to them as well.
 Celebrity! If only they knew what it really meant to be famous . . . to
 have so many eyes always watching.

 There was a fax from Will waiting for me at the Four Seasons Hotel in
 town:

 GOOD LUCK, MY SONGBIRD FORGIVE YOUR WILL HIS TRESPASSES PLEASE FORGIVE ME
 HURRY HOME WITH THE CHILDREN I LOVE YOU ALWAYS HAVE, ALWAYS WILL.

 I crumpled the paper. Always Will, indeed.
CHAPTER 78

BARRY, JENNIE, ALLIE, and I were cuddled inside a big red-and-silver Bell
helicopter. Beneath us were the bright lights of Candlestick Park, the dark
waters of the bay. I was dressed in my usual outfit: a loose white peasant's
blouse, long skirt, flat shoes, so I wouldn't be a millimeter taller than I
was.
  But was 1 really ready for this? I wasn't sure, but I had to try it, really
  wanted to.
  In less than an hour I would be making my first major concert appearance in
  almost three years. The networks had sent film crews. This was news,
  right?-hard copy. A live album was being recorded tonight. There had been
  over five hundred thousand requests for tickets; there were fewer than
  eighty thousand seats.
  Yet we were sealed off in the helicopter, a private family: my children, my
  best friend. This was better than being down there, I was thinking.
276   James Patterson

 "Let's not land," I said.
  Barry raised an eyebrow and made a face. He put his hand over his mouth as
  though he were speaking into a mike. "Uh, Earth to Maggie, Earth to Peter
  Pan."
  "I mean it. Can't we just stay up here till tomorrow?" I was feeling a
  little giddy.
   "What'll we use for fuel?" Jennie asked.
  "They can refuel us in midair. Like long-range bombers. It'll be cool."
   "We'd be hungry," Allie said, always thinking of eats.
  "They can pass in sandwiches with the fuel. No problem."
   Jennie laughed. She liked it when I talked nonsense.
  "I'm hungry now," Allie announced. He was always the most practical member
  of JAM.
  "We're about to land," Barry told him, "no matter what your mother says.
  I'll get you some food at the Park. All-beef franks, mmm-mmm good."
  I suddenly felt a wave of sadness, and also unbelievable fear. Stage
  fright. "I don't know if I can go on," I said. "Really, Barry. No joke."
  He took my hand. "Preconcert jitters. Go with the fear. Use it."
  "More than that. It seems so safe here, so right. Down there is danger.
  First the fans, and then-"
  "Will," he said. I had told Barry nothing about the fight, but he'd guessed
  something was wrong. He knew me too well.
   "Life," I said.
                   HIDE & SEEK   277

              xOkay, so I'd sold close to twenty million albums; I'd won
              eleven Grammy Awards.
 But I could still get scared, couldn't I?
  My singing style was the personal confessional mode, right? I could do that
  now. Just go out there in front of all those people and be myself. Be very
  up front and personal.
  The trouble was-I was starting to feel like my old self. I remembered the
  Maggie who had existed in West Point. I even remembered the little girl who
  broke into tears because she couldn't stop stuttering when she had to
  answer questions in school.
  I knew exactly what my performance was supposed to be-edgy, but also
  heartfelt. My songs were supposed to be succinct and catchy on the
  surface-infected with all kinds of influences: rock, Broadway, classical,
  French art song-but under the surface, complex and psychologically true.
  I knew all this as I walked out on that big stage in San Francisco, as I
  looked down on all those expectant faces.
  So why was I afraid? No, absolutely petrified? Why was I scared that I
  wouldn't be able to sing at all?
  I sat down at the piano, and I started to mouth lyrics against the stiff,
  chilly breeze off the bay.
   I almost got through the first song-
   Then I went to pieces.
  With all those strangers watching-but also my children, with Jennie and
  Allie right there in the stage wings.
278   James Patterson

 BATTERY, I sang.
 HE HIT ME
 THIS CAN'T BE ME
  I started to stammer, then to stutter again-something I hadn't done in so
  many years, something I'd fought so hard to overcome.

   I couldn't sing anymore. I couldn't go on.
  I finally turned and talked to the huge crowd-"I'm having a little trouble
  up here. Whew. I'm sorry. I'm in trouble."
  I was beginning to have heart palpitations. I felt faint and thought I
  might fall off the piano bench.
  Then Jennie and Barry and Allie were there for me. So were a couple of the
  musicians. They helped me offstage. I could barely walk.
  "Poor Mommy," Allie kept saying. "Poor Mommy. Mommy got sick."
        CHAPTER 79

    ILL HAD ALWAYS been a night creature. Now, more than ever he needed to
    get out and around. The werewolf of Bedford.
  He whipped his black BMW coupe approximately five hundred yards down
  Greenbriar Road. He turned from one tree-lined, shadowy driveway-his
  own-into the next.
  The main entrance to the Lake Club was marked by ten-foot-high fieldstone
  pillars. An uneven fence of like stone ran the length of the property, and
  Will drove past the entrance to a designated spot near the fence.
  He parked and got out. The fence swung open; a path led to the rear of the
  clubhouse and a service door that would be virtually invisible to anyone
  who wasn't looking for it.
  Inside the club, there was a tangible stillness in the air that signified
  privacy and privilege. It reminded Will
280   James Patterson

 of the silence of cathedrals and European banks. He maneuvered his way past
 deserted billiard and smoking rooms to yet another door, on which he
 knocked, paused, and knocked again.
  The door was opened from inside. Will blinked at the sudden bright light
  assailing his eyes. Then he took in the mahogany paneling, the long oak
  bar, the Tiffany lamps, and the Renaissance paintings that hung on the
  walls of the room.
  The group of men clustered at the bar had watched his entrance. They said
  hello once they saw it was he, and that Will belonged there.
  Peter O'Malley was one of them. Strangely, he and Will had become friendly
  at the club. They had Maggie in common, didn't they? Maggie had brought
  them together, and they frequently talked about her. Peter dreamed of
  bringing Maggie down.
  That evening, they were both attending a late-night get-together at the
  country club. The meeting was strictly unofficial.
  Once, or sometimes twice a month, after the club closed, a few members
  brought in special entertainment. It was a way for the high-powered men to
  let off steam and have some social, and certainly politically unacceptable,
  fun. God knows, they couldn't seem to get it at home with "the wives."
  The room was lit by the gold and red flames from an ample fieldstone
  fireplace. The fires of Hell, Will called it. A sample of what's to come
  for the lot of us.
  Standing in front of the fireplace in a more or less orderly row, stood six
  girls. They were all young beaut-
                     HIDE & SEEK   281

 ies. Their bare skin and long hair gleamed in the burnishing firelight.
  The eldest looked twenty at the most, the youngest might have been sixteen.
  Each was wearing a black sleeping mask. The girls were never permitted to
  see the members, or even the location of the club.
  The exclusive Lake Club of Bedford Hills, Will thought
 to himself. It was a facade, like everything else.
  Later that night, Will picked out one of the young girls. She was tall and
  blond and reminded him of Jennie.
        CHAPTER 80

 THINK I knew in my heart, for some time, that the marriage was over between
 Will and me. It was a
  matter of timing now. What would be best for the children, then for me, and
  finally for Will. I didn't want to hurt him, just leave him.
  Will was there to greet us when we got home. He was also his old self. Our
  arrival revived him. He became almost giddy with joy. He seemed genuinely
  concerned about what had happened to me in San Francisco, my minibreakdown.
  He said he understood "the jitters" very well, and I believed Will did.
  He promised me there would be no more anger, no more fights, no more
  disappearances. His fear of desertion had made him desperate. He was in
  touch with his feelings once again.
  I listened to Will and everything he had to say. I heard the words. I had
  already made my decision though. Will
                   HIDE & SEEK   283

 had shown me, however briefly, a side of him that I couldn't possible be
 around, or deal with.
 An uneasy calm descended on the house in Bedford.

 It was calm sometimes too with Phillip, I thought.

 I was getting everything in order, talking to Nathan Bailford and taking
 care of the legal aspects as best I could. I just needed another day or so,
 then I would talk to Will. In the meantime, I saw a very good psychiatrist
 in nearby Tarrytown. I was, as the papers would later say, "under a doctor's
 care, " whatever that is supposed to convey.
  Something came up unexpectedly. I received a call to come to Jennie's
  school. They said it was important. The Bedford Hills Academy's
  administration building was a small, neat Victorian-style house that looked
  like a thriving country inn. As I hurried inside, students and office staff
  recognized me and tried not to stare. I waved to the kids I knew, and even
  to some I didn't recognize.
  I ran up the stairs, stopping long enough in a bathroom to comb my hair,
  put on lipstick, check to make sure that my head was on straight.
  I was going to meet Dr. Henry Follett, Dean of the Academy, and I wanted to
  look no different from other mothers with children at the school. For some
  reason, I was already more upset than the occasion probably required.
  Dr. Follett's office was small but pleasant, with a picture window looking
  out over the campus, and school memorabilia everywhere-pennants,
  championship
284   James Patterson

 banners, photographs of Follett with students or local officials.
  He was a likable man in his fifties, compact and natty, and I guessed he
  had a sense of humor, though his expression was serious and his smile was
  professional. Still, his eyes were kind. And he had a nice handshake.
  I didn't know why he had summoned me. I was busy at home, distracted with
  Will, but I had come to the school right away. My stomach, my back, my neck
  were all in knots.
  "It's about Jennie," he said, as soon as I was seated in front of his
  large, cluttered desk.
  "Yes. I figured as much. Is she in some kind of trouble?" I asked. I was
  trying not to show what I was feeling inside. I had to be strong here-for
  Jennie. I could do that.
  "I'm not sure, Mrs. Bradford. Maybe you can tell me."
  I hadn't noticed anything too unusual about Jennie. She was a teenager
  though. "She seems fine. Rebellious at times, argumentative, mimics
  Butthead and Beavis around the house to drive me crazy."
  "Acting the same at home though? Not sick lately? Not depressed or
  unhappy?"
  I shook my head, and continued to feel both confused and worried. What was
  he getting at? I saw Jennie every day. Of course she had her own life and
  her own friends. I operated on the principle that the best thing a mother
  can do for her teenage daughter is to give her a reasonable amount of space
  to grow up in. That, plus love.
                   HIDE & SEEK   285

  "Certainly not sick," I said. "What's going on, Dr. Follett? Please tell me
  why you called."
  He drummed his fingers on his desk. "This semester, Jennie has skipped
  seventeen days of school."
  Bombshell! I felt suddenly cold all over. "Skipped seventeen days?"
   "Cut her classes. Didn't show up at all."
  "My God! I had no idea. I almost don't believe it, but of course I do. It
  isn't like Jennie."
   "No, it isn't like Jennie," he agreed.
  He handed me some papers from his desk. A report card and several illness
  notes. "Is that your signature?"
  I looked at the notes and the report card. My hands were shaking. "My name,
  not my handwriting."Another bombshell.
   "Jennie's?"
  "I'm not sure. Could be." My head was spinning too. This was the last thing
  I'd expected. Jennie had never been in trouble.
  "We think she was trying to forge your signature," Dr. Follett said,
  bringing me back from my reverie.
  "Jennie wouldn't do something like that." I winced. Obviously, she had.
  "Are you sure? If it's not your signature, and it's not Jennie's forgery,
  then whose could it be?"
  My brain whirled. "I really haven't a clue." Suddenly, I was angry at
  Jennie though. We had always trusted each other. I'd made time for Jennie
  no matter what else was going on.
   "Mr. Shepherd?" the dean asked.
286   James Patterson

  "No. He's her stepfather. He'd simply sign. And this isn't his signature
  either."
  "Look at the latest report card," he said. "Have you seen this?"
  I looked. B's and C's. I wanted to cry. Jennie had always been an A
  student. Maybe I hadn't been paying enough attention because of that?
  "Mrs. Bradford, Jennie is one of the best students at Bedford Hills
  Academy. Then suddenly, just this semester, she gets very bad marks. For
  her anyway. That sometimes happens in the senior year, when a kid's been
  accepted at college and feels she deserves a break. But Jennie's a
  sophomore. Just the time her grades should be highest."
  "I know. Jennie knows," I said. I didn't understand what could have
  happened. This had come out of the blue. I didn't think she had picked up
  on Will and me, but maybe she had. Kids can tell.
  Dr. Follett stood up from his desk, and extended his hand. "We all love
  Jennie here at the Academy. Faculty and her classmates both. If you find
  out anything, please call me. It wouldn't be betraying her secrets. This
  isn't the first time something like this has happened to a student, and
  we're pretty good at fixing things."
  I shook his hand, then I headed out-to try and find Jennie. She had skipped
  classes again today.
  First though, I sat in the school's visitor parking lot and tried to stop
  my body from trembling. My world seemed to be falling apart again.
        CHAPTER 81

 T kn7 ARRIVED HOME around three-thirty, her
tapsack full of books, looking innocent of any g
wrongdoing. I asked her to take a ride with me.
  I drove to the Pound Ridge Reservation, a nature preserve in the heart of
  Westchester. At around four, the two of us hiked up a hill toward an
  antique fire tower, from the top of which you could see Long Island Sound,
  and even the New York City skyline far to the south.
  Jennie, of course, wanted to know what was going on. I asked her to wait.
  All in good time, my sweet darling.
  We walked silently-I didn't know where to start-and stopped, breathless,
  when we reached the crest. I was feeling maternal, angry, hurt,
  optimistic-just as in the songs I wrote. True songs out of life, right?
  "I've been to see Dean Follett," I finally told her. The first shoe drops!
288   James Patterson

  Jennie had been looking at me. Now, she turned her head away. Not a word.
  "He says your grades are falling. He also says you've been skipping
  school." The second shoe.
  "School's boring and I hate it." Jennie's tone was surly and defiant. Not
  like her at all. It was Jennie at her absolute worst, and not something I
  saw very often.
   "You didn't used to think so," I said to her.
  "I do now. There's nothing worth learning. The teachers there aren't very
  bright, you know."
  "So you don't go anymore. That's interesting, Jen. Quite a revelation. What
  do you do with your days?"
  "Nothing much. But nothing is better than my classes."
   "You're not home."
  "How would you know that for sure? You're shut up in your study most of the
  day."
  Now she was being completely unfair, but I kept my cool. "I'd know, and you
  know I would. I love you, Jennie, and if you're in any kind of trouble-"
  "Nobody gives a damn about anybody else. Don't fake it. Don't condescend to
  me now."
  Even without touching her, I could sense an awful tenseness in her body,
  the effort she had to make to speak at all. When had this happened? How had
  it happened? Why?
  "I love you," I said, my voice unsteady. "You're the most precious thing in
  my life. It's always been that way."
   Her composure finally broke. So did mine. "Don't
                   HIDE & SEEK   289

 say that," she suddenly wailed. "Don't say you love me, Mom. I don't deserve
 it."
  I could barely speak. I was holding back great, racking sobs. "Why? I do
  love you. Why shouldn't I tell you what's true?"
  "Because you couldn't. You don't know who I am, and it takes something like
  this to get your attention. Failing grades! I mean-who cares?"
  I finally bowed my head, and I started to cry. I thought that I could
  handle anything, but not this.
  Suddenly, Jennie flung herself at me, burying her face in my neck. I could
  feel her hot tears, her body's warmth.
  "I can't tell you," she sobbed. "I'm not even sure that I know. I'm fifteen
  and it's all a little nuts. So what's new?" she finally choked out a laugh.

 "My God, Mom," Jennie said to me then. "You're shaking all over."
  We sat on the ground and held each other for a long, long time. A breeze
  came up, and I wrapped my sweater around her. My baby, I thought. My friend
  for so many years. My sweet Jennie.
  But I could think of no way to comfort her, and make it better for either
  of us. I blamed myself, of course. I'd tried so hard to be supermom, but it
  wasn't enough. It never is.
        CHAPTER 82

 SPENT A blessed hour the next morning, which was unseasonably warm, working
 in the garden
  behind the swimming pool. The time alone, the feel of sunlight on the back
  of my neck, the physical exertion-all were exactly what the doctor ordered.
  I began to regroup.
  I needed time to think things through in a straight line. The worsening
  situation with Will. Jennie's problems at school. My own bad experience in
  San Francisco. It was a lot to take at one time; I was afraid that I wasn't
  handling it very well.
  There was an explosion in the woods beyond the pool.
  I stopped digging, stopped thinking, stopped breathing, and listened with
  total concentration. And dread.
  A second explosion came from behind a thick wall of evergreens. The trees
  masked my view.
                   HIDE & SEEK   291

 Gunshots? Oh my God.
  I was on my feet, running at full speed toward the thick pocket of trees.
  A scream was stuck in my throat.
   Oh God, dear God . . . what's happened?
   What's happened now?
  I plunged into the woods, heading for the sound of the shots. My heart was
  pounding and there was a sharp pain in my chest.
  Instinct drove me; I didn't even think of calling for help. Whom would I
  call to anyway?
   Gunshots? Near our house? How could that be?
  My ankles were stabbed by rocks and thistles. There were no more shots,
  just a frightening, desolate silence. Finally, I came to a clearing. I
  stopped running.
  Will was standing there. Will was holding a rifle in the crook of his arm.
  He turned at the sound of my footsteps. He looked at me as though I didn't
  belong there.
   "What are you doing?" I managed to speak.
  "Target practice," he said. He motioned to a row of beer and soda cans set
  up on a log. "Care to give it a go, Maggie?"
  He flashed his best North Downing smile. "I'm getting quite good. I'm a
  natural it seems. Great hand-toeye."
  Phillip had a gun too. 1 had used it to kill him. I remembered dark blood
  pouring from his mouth, saw his look of horror, heard his grunt of surprise
  as the fatal bullet struck him.
  "Get rid of it!" I screamed. "I don't want it anywhere near my house. Get
  rid of that gun!"
292   James Patterson

  Will looked at me coldly, but then he grinned. "Our house. But it's your
  call, Maggie. If it disturbs you, it's gone. If you don't trust yourself
  around guns, I understand."
        CHAPTER 83

   IS WAS THE day. I just couldn't have known it. 1 wouldn't have expected
   it. This was the day.
    Having been unable to sleep, I slipped out of the house at dawn. I was
    wearing a terrycloth robe and my rattiest sneakers. My long hair was in
    knots. Hopeless.
  I figured the air would be good for me, give me a fresh start. I hoped no
  one would see me like this. No paparazzi sneaking shots through the fence.
  I walked to the partly crumbled fieldstone wall that divided my property
  from the grounds of the Lake Club. My sneakers stamped defiantly through
  damp leaves and creepers. Chattering blue jays and robins darted among the
  high trees over my head.
   "Oh, shut the heck up," I grumped at the birds.
  I was startled to hear another kind of sound in the woods. A human voice.
   "Who's there?" I called ahead. "Hello?"
294   James Patterson

  J. C. Frazier appeared. He was coming out of a meadow that belonged to the
  Lake Club, where he worked as head groundskeeper. J.C. was always outside,
  so we met from time to time. I knew that he was seeing Mrs. Leigh, and she
  thought he was a good man. Yes, and they are hard to find, I was tempted to
  tell her.
  "Mornin', Mrs. Bradford. You the one responsible for this fine weather?" he
  asked. Not a care in the world, and why should he? His grounds were in
  perfect order.
   "I thought you were in charge of the weather, J.C."
  "No way, ma'am. I'm charged with the grounds only. I believe you have the
  upper atmosphere. And a real good job you've made of it today. Blue skies
  everywhere I can see."
  We stopped to talk over a mossy stone wall. J.C. probably knew more secrets
  about the residents of Bedford than anyone around, but his discretion was
  as much responsible for his keeping his job as was his skill, so our talk
  was of seasonal flowers and the approaching summer. Harmless small talk,
  but it hit the spot, and took my mind off my problems, if only for a little
  while.
  I remembered something I'd been meaning to ask somebody at the club, or
  maybe something I'd been afraid to bring up before.
  "Sometimes at night I've noticed lights on in the club. I'd say around one
  or two in the morning."
  J.C. thought about what I'd said, then shook his head. "That's not
  possible. No, I'm afraid not, Mrs. Bradford."
   "I've seen the lights. I'm positive that I have."
  "No, ma'am. I don't think so. Couldn't be. The club closes at eleven.
  Always. That's the golden rule."
                   HIDE & SEEK   295

  I thought of arguing with him further, but gave up. If J.C. didn't want to
  talk, he wouldn't talk.
  He tipped his ballcap, a blue one that read "ICY Giants." "Got to get back,
  plenty of work to do. You have a pleasant day, Mrs. Bradford."
  I watched J.C. make his way back toward the large estate house of the club.
  Strange, I thought. Why wouldn't he know about the lights? Or why would he
  lie to me?
  I finally went back to the house determined to talk to Will that morning.
  It had to be done, however painful for both of us. This seemed like as good
  a day as any.
  Jennie and Allie were toasting Pop-Tarts in the kitchen. They were both
  dressed. Jennie looked ready for school, which pleased me.
  "Is Will up?" I asked, trying to make it sound as though it were not a big
  deal, nothing special.
  "You just missed him, Mom," Jennie said. "He had to go to the city on
  business. Said he'd be back around four."
  I groaned. Will was almost never out of the house this early. Just my luck.
   This was the day.
        CHAPTER 84

ILL DIDN'T COME home at four that afternoon. He still hadn't arrived at
    seven-thirty when we sat down for dinner.
  Or at ten, when we went upstairs to get ready for bed. He never called to
  say he'd be late, or maybe that he wouldn't be coming home at all.
  I lay in bed with the lights off, but my eyes wide open. I was blaming
  myself, and I knew I shouldn't do that. Will had been so incredibly
  romantic and sensitive in the beginning of our relationship, and then he
  had just switched it off. Completely.
  I wondered if he was having an affair now, or maybe more than one. I guess
  I shouldn't have cared about that, but I did.
  I don't know how I finally got to sleep, only that I did.
                   HIDE & SEEK   297

 "Damn! Damn it to hell!" I heard.
  Will's curses woke me. He was inside the bedroom. He was home.
  I could see him standing near the door, examining his toe. He'd stubbed it
  in the darkness. Well, good. Serves him right.
  The bedroom door was half-open and light from the hallway silhouetted his
  body. His face remained in shadow.
  He turned to look at me, but I pretended to be asleep. I held my breath.
  Then he crept out of the room.
  He pulled the door awkwardly behind him. The door slammed shut. More of his
  stupid head games? Damn him.
  I looked at the luminous face of the bedside clock: 12:45.
  Where had he been tonight? Maybe I should get up and talk with him now,
  while the kids were asleep.
  I got up, walked to the window, and looked outside. I saw Will. What was he
  doing? Where was he going down there?
  I put on my robe and left the bedroom. The hallway was dark. On his way
  out, Will had turned off the night light we kept on for Allie.
   I hurried downstairs.
  The lights were off in the living room and den. There was no sound, no
  movement.
 Something seemed wrong to me! Why were the lights

 off ?
   What was he up to?
298   James Patterson

  The downstairs rooms were dark and quiet too. There was no one in the
  kitchen, or in Mrs. Leigh's room. Fridays were her night off, I remembered.
 I went back to the foot of the stairs and peered up.
 Nothing to see. Was Will back inside the house?
   I started to climb the stairs again.
  Halfway up, I saw something standing against the wall. My heart almost
  stopped. My legs nearly went out from under me.
  It was the rifle! I'd finally found it. In the middle of the stairway,
  where Will had left it!
  My head was filled with loud noise. Chaos and confusion. None of this made
  sense to me.
   What was going on?
  Was Will upstairs again? What was he planning to do with the rifle? Where
  had it come from?
  I started to run up the stairs. I reached the top step and stopped. At the
  far end of the corridor a line of light showed from beneath a door.
  It was Jennie's door. The light hadn't been on just a few minutes before.
  I was suddenly terrified that Will was in there. He's taking the children,
  I thought.
  I ran to get the rifle, then I hurried back. At least I had the gun now,
  not Will.
  Had he planned to murder us all? Disturbed men did things like that. It
  wouldn't be the first time, would it?
   I had a flashback. Phillip!
  I ran down the corridor and yanked open Jennie's door. The rifle was ready,
  at least I thought it was. I
                   HIDE & SEEK   299

 really didn't know very much about guns. Next to nothing, actually.
  What I saw inside the bedroom drove me absolutely out of my mind.
        CHAPTER 85

 THIS IS THE day! Oh, Jesus God, Will!
 Don't shoot him. Don't do it. Maggie, don't! a voice inside my head screamed
 at a deafening level.
  Jennie was on the bed, wearing short, white pajamas. Her long, bare legs
  were exposed. Her eyes were closed; she seemed to be breathing normally.
  There was a glass of milk on the night table, half-finished.
   I took in every tiny detail, understanding nothing yet.

   This was so bad. This was so bad.
  Will stood at the foot of her bed. He was dressed in khakis and a sport
  shirt. What he'd worn for his business meeting in New York? He looked too
  casual for business. What was Will doing in Jennie's bedroom?
  "Maggie!" he said, as cool as could be. His film star persona. "I thought
  you were asleep. Were you trying to fool me?"
   My heart was pounding so hard and fast it was difficult
                   HIDE & SEEK   301

 for me to breathe. "What are you doing in here?" I gasped out the words.
 "What is going on?"
  Jennie suddenly sat up, and rubbed her eyes. She looked frightened. "Mom?
  Will? What's the matter? What's happening? Is that a gun? Mom?"
  Will smiled at the horrifying scene. It was the most scary and evil
  expression I had ever seen. I didn't know the person I was looking at. What
  was he doing in Jennie's bedroom? I thought that I knew.
  "Jennie and I were just getting ready for some fun," he said. "Care to join
  us in bed? Menage d trois?"
  Menage k trois? I was too scared and stunned to speak. For a moment my body
  was paralyzed. My pulse was racing crazily. I felt my mind implode. Will
  and Jennie? Oh, my God, nol
  I raised the gun and aimed it at Will. I didn't care about the
  consequences.
  I couldn't pull the trigger though. 1 couldn't do it. I couldn't.
  "Get out of this house, and don't you ever come back," I said in a steady
  voice.
  Will pushed past me and with his great speed rushed down the corridor. I
  could tell by the sound that he took the steps two at a time. He was
  laughing in a loud, braying voice, the kind you heard in horror movies.
  I went after him, hampered by the unwieldy gun. I didn't want to shoot him,
  just make sure he was goneforever. Gone from all of our lives.
  He went out the front door, and I ran after him. I could see little at
  first except the outline of overhanging
302   James Patterson

 trees, but I heard his footsteps retreating toward the back of the house.
  I pitched forward. Hit my knee. Caught myself with one hand.

   Suddenly I couldn't hear steps anymore!
  I pushed myself up. I listened intently, as I have never listened before.
  I was frightened. I thought I might be going into shock. I felt cold all
  over. I was freezing cold. I couldn't forget seeing Will in Jennie's
  bedroom. The look in her eyes.
  It was too quiet. I couldn't hear Will, or see him either. What was he
  doing out here?
  The moon had disappeared behind a cover of clouds. It was nearly pitch
  dark. I couldn't stay outside. I knew I should get back in the house.
  Perhaps he had tricked me. Gone back to Jennie. I didn't know what to do.
  I stood uncertainly, squinting my eyes and looking around, trying to
  penetrate the darkness. I remembered hiding in the crawl space beneath the
  house near West Point. My nightmare had completed a full circle.
   Silence.
   Darkness.
   The cold. I was shaking all over again.
   "You stupid, prying bitch! You betrayed me."
  With a roar, Will attacked from behind. His strong hands struggled to grasp
  my throat. I fought free from the stranglehold. He struck my face, a
  glancing but jolting blow. It brought me to my knees. I fought to get up.
  Couldn't. Not even close.
                   HIDE & SEEK   303

  Will swung his leg. With a powerful kick, he broke my rib, maybe several
  ribs. The pain was sharp, and unimaginable. The shock, the terror of that
  moment, was beyond belief.
   I fell toward the hard, cold ground.
  The rifle went off with a roar louder than any of my screams, louder than
  a clap of thunder. I rolled onto my stomach, then everything went black and
  I fell unconscious into the cold, wet leaves.
CHAPTER 86

  DON'T KNOW.

   I don't know.
   I honestly don't know what happened on that fateful night of December 17.
   Did I shoot Will? Did I lure him outside and then blow him away? They say
   I did. Am I guilty of murder? TWo murders? And if two murders, why not
   three?
  Are they right when they call me a killer? The black widow of Bedford?
  Maybe I've finally gone crazy. It feels that way. It feels so awful, so
  unfair. But life isn't always fair.

 I woke in my own bed with my face buried in my pillow and an agonizing pain
 throbbing across my left side. I felt as though I'd been beaten with a work
 shovel. Everything was crashing loudly inside my head.
                   HIDE & SEEK   305

  In my mind I tumbled and tumbled but couldn't stop the images of violence
  and horror from coming at me.
   Who had fired the rifle?
  Jennie, I thought. I've got to get to Jennie. And Allie. I was conscious of
  a great buzzing noise. At first I thought it was in my head, but then
  realized it came from outside.
  Why were there voices outside my house? What in the world was going on?
  My eyelids felt unnaturally heavy. Pain, like a razor cut, was behind them.
  Another kind of pain, particularly sharp, knifed into my ribs.
  I forced my eyes open, then quickly closed them. The light was too bright.
  Who had turned the lamp on?
   I heard footsteps on the stairs. Will!
  I tried to sit up but couldn't. A flaming yellow bolt crossed my vision
  like heat lightning, like a bold graphic on MTV.
   Again I opened my eyes.
  I could barely see the heavyset black man in a dark suit, white shirt, and
  tie. He was standing by the side of the bed, looking down at me. He seemed
  seven feet tall. His horn-rimmed glasses appeared too small for his giant
  head.
  He was staring at me. An odd look on his face. What was he doing in my
  bedroom? Or was I in a hospital? This felt more like a hospital actually.
   "You're Maggie Bradford?"
  I tried to nod, tried to understand what could possibly be going on,
  wherever I was. Maybe I was having a flashback.
306   James Patterson

  "We found you outside, carried you up here," the man said. He passed some
  sort of badge before my face. A gold and blue insignia.
  "I'm Emmett Harmon, Chief of the Bedford Police." His solemn voice boomed
  inside my head. The Chief of the Bedford Police?

   Oh, dear God. What's happened? Jennie? Allie?
  "What are you doing here? Please, where are my children?" I whispered. My
  throat was raw and ached when I talked.
  "Maggie Bradford, you're under arrest for the murder of your husband, Will
  Shepherd. You have the right to remain silent."
BOOK FIVE
Trial & Error
                                
        CHAPTER 87

 "  S. NORMA BREEN?"
      "Yes. Who is this I'm speaking to?"
      "My name's Barry Kahn."
 "You don't say. My, my. The singer Barry Kahn?"
 "The same."
  "I think you're terrific! Your songs are anyway. What can I help you
  with?"
   "It's not for me that I'm calling. We need your help."
   "We?"
 "Nathan Bailford and L"
   "Nathan! How the hell is Nathan?"
   "Up to his ears in the Maggie Bradford defense."
   "Yes. I'd heard he took it on. Tough duty."
  "We'd like to hire you for our team. Nathan says you're the best
  investigator he knows."
  "I'm very good, but what difference does it make? Isn't this case pretty
  open and shut? That's what I hear."
310  James Patterson

  "We don't think so, not at all. Nathan thinks it's anything but open and
  shut."
  "You could have fooled me. The media has her drilling the son of a bitch,
  blowing his head off."
  "There's more to it than that, believe me there is. You interested in
  finding out what?"
   "He was shtupping someone else?"
  "We'll never know. Probably. But Maggie wouldn't kill him for that."
   "Abuse?"
  "Far as I know, he hit her once. No, I'm sorry, twice. She wouldn't kill
  him for that either. She's a good person. Just like in her songs."
   "Then why'd she do it?"
  "That's what we're hiring you to find out, Ms. Breen. We're not entirely
  sure that she did."
   "You need a defense, or you want the facts?"
   "We need a defense."
  "Ah. My thanks for your honesty. I like that in a famous singer."
  "But we're sure the facts will lead to the defense. Maggie's not a killer."
  "Only of husbands, it seems. Didn't she shoot hubby number one? I do
  believe I read that in the funny pages."
  "That's never been proved. She was never tried for it. She was originally
  charged with second-degree murder, but it didn't stick."
   "And her live-in? Patrick O'Malley?"
   "An accident. O'Malley had a heart attack."
   "I thought she confessed to the murder."
   "The police claim what they have is a confession.
                   HIDE & SEEK   311

 Maggie was confused and disoriented when they brought her in. You can
 understand that."
  "The press are already trying her. She's sure losing in their court. The
  first one with a handgun, the next on a boat, this one with a rifle."
 "Look. If you don't want to take this on-"
   "Oh, I didn't say that."
   "Then you'll join us?"
 "For you, Barry Kahn-"
  There was a pause. "God bless you, Ms. Breen," Barry said.
   "Call me Norma."
  She could hear his sigh of relief, imagined the strain he was under. And
  she admired his loyalty to his friend, even if she was the "black widow"
  of Bedford, and almost surely guilty as sin.
        CHAPTER 88

 MOST PEOPLE STILL didn't know the issues separating the Serbs and the
 Croats, but the murder trial of Maggie Bradford was being watched everywhere
 around the world. Reporters and television crews arrived not only from
 across the United States, but also from Europe, South America, Asia, and
 probably from the moon. The crush of the press was as great, Norma Breen
 thought, as at a presidential inauguralonly the desperation for the "inside"
 story was far more lunatic.
  Christ, it's a goddamn murder trial, she thought. Whatever the outcome, it
  won't change the world. So what if she killed a husband or two? Most of
  them deserve it!
  She pointed her dusty yellow Camaro down Clarke Street in Bedford Village
  and slowly drove past the buzzing courthouse for the second time that
  morning.
                   HIDE & SEEK   313

  A procession of black umbrellas, vinyl raincoats, Boston Chicken and
  Dunkin' Donuts take-out bags stretched along the main street, past Hamilton
  Drugs, Willie's Newspapers, and the new public library. The slow parade
  turned onto Charles Street and continued five more blocks.
  What a mess! What a freaking disaster area! Tourist buses were parked down
  Millar and Grant streets: bright yellow school buses and Greyhounds with
  names like PITTSFIELD and CATAWBA on their foreheads. It was early
  December, and snow already hung in the air.
  "Maggie and Will: Bittersweet Love Tragedy. " That was today's headline;
  similar phrases floated out to Norma from her car radio, including "Three
  Strikes. She's Out!"
  Cute! Norma liked that one. Finally, a little sense of humor about this
  fiasco, which happened to be her job for now.
  The chief defense investigator hated publicity, didn't care about the fame,
  or even getting rich. It interfered with her work, all those reporters
  scurrying after her. Still, she knew what she was in for. Maggie Bradford
  was a star. One segment of the public had decided she was guilty; the
  other, innocent as a lamb. And Norma?
  Dammit, I still don't know what to think. Maggie isn't sure herself. What
  she told the police was damn close to a confession. The evidence is
  impressive.
  Her yellow pass, pasted conspicuously on her windshield, enabled her to
  spin the Chevrolet into the black topped courthouse parking area. The lot
  was already packed with similarly stickered state and local police
314   James Patterson

 cars, and private cars belonging to the attorneys and their aides from both
 sides.
  Judge Andrew Sussman's blue Mercedes was in his private stall beside the
  courthouse back door. Nearby stood Nathan Bailford's silver Porsche,
  looking like a car a college boy might drive to pick up pretty girls on
  weekends.
  And it was Bailford who came up to her as she hefted her slightly
  overweight body out of her car.
  Bailford gestured toward the crowd outside the lot. "And today's only for
  jury selection. Imagine the scene when the real trial starts."
  "How's your client holding up?" Norma asked. She had visited the accused
  woman several times in the past weeks, finding her surprisingly
  down-to-earth, although remote, neither helpful nor hindering. "Confused,
  " she was told. Clinically depressed, Norma described her.
  "The same. Hasn't really changed since the night of the killing. All lows,
  no highs." He looked at her anxiously. "Anything new on your end?"
  "Nothing yet. Lot of balls in the air though. Sometimes I feel like the
  court juggler. Ha, ha."
  Norma didn't tell the lawyer that there were aspects to the killing that
  troubled her a great deal. There was nothing really specific yet, just
  things that didn't hang together, or hold up to close scrutiny.
  What did seem clear was this: If Maggie shot her first husband, she was
  forced to do it. If she shot Will Shepherd, she was also forced to. By what
  or by whom was unclear.
                   HIDE & SEEK   315

 The real trouble was that there were two killings. One might be
 explained-temporary insanity, self-defense, long-term abuse. But two?
  She would go back to the murder site that afternoon, looking for more
  information, looking for some trail to follow.
  There was something she hadn't found, something crucial. There had to be.

   Dammit. Something was definitely wrong.

 In Palm Springs, a California hazy, grapefruit-pink desert sun slid over the
 rocky stubble topping the mountains. The early rays came shimmering down
 onto the swimming pool and the surrounding red tile terrace.
  Peter O'Malley laid aside his copy of yesterday's New York Times. He
  removed his new mirrored Ray-Ban sunglasses, put them on a wrought-iron
  drink stand, and stared at the sparkling blue sheet of pool water.
  His mind was sparkling too. On the surface itself, superimposed over the
  reflection of the stucco pool house, he could almost see the face of Maggie
  Bradford. Just as he had seen it on television last night. Pale, shadows
  under the eyes. She looked like a damn zombie, out of it, and his heart
  leapt at her plight.
   Serves her fucking well right!
  Later that night he'd heard her singing voice, the sound that literally
  destroyed him, blaring from his car radio. Her songs were all over the
  radio, of course. The caged songbird, the deejay called her.
   Well, that voice wouldn't be around much longer. Not
316   James Patterson

 on the radio (who would play the songs of a convicted murderess?), not in
 the boardroom of his father's company either.
  He put his dark glasses back on, picked up the pen and legal pad he had
  brought with him to the pool, and began the letter that he believed would
  guarantee the process of sending Maggie Bradford to her doom.
  What goes around, comes around, sweetheart. Now you get yours. Trust me
  on that. Your "affair" with the O'Malleys isn't quite over with yet.
        CHAPTER 89

 EVERYBODY WHO CAME into close contact with Dan Nizhinski, the Westchester
 County district attorney, had the same reaction: he was too good to be true,
 he was perfect for his part.
  First, there were his looks. He was six foot one, with corn-blond hair
  prematurely thinning on top but long on the sides. His face was somewhat
  weatherbeaten, making it look older than its thirty-six years, but the
  lines around his light blue, sparkling eyes gave them a mischievousness
  that made women jurors light up and men jurors consider him their friend.
  Second was his courtroom manner. Standing rulerstraight, he seemed to take
  the jurors into his confidence, yet distanced himself enough so that they
  regarded him with awe. "I'm telling you the truth," he seemed to be saying.
  "Trust me. Astonishing as the revelations are, the facts support them."
318   James Patterson

  Right now, though, at ease, cordovaned feet resting on top of his desk, he
  was addressing his assistants about the upcoming trial.
  "The facts aren't in doubt," he said for what must have been the tenth
  time. "She just about admitted she shot him, handed over the murder weapon
  to the police, has cooperated more with them, I gather, than with her own
  attorneys. Such behavior is not uncommon in murder cases.
  "But"-and here he paused for dramatic effect-"but this woman has enough
  money to buy the best legal and investigative resources available. Nathan
  Bailford himself will do the actual cross-examination; he's had more
  experience in murder trials than he has in corporate ones. It's how he made
  his reputation. And they've hired Norma Breen as their investigator. If
  there's something exculpatory to find, she'll find it-only there's nothing,
  damn it. Nothing!"
  Another pause, this one to control his emotions. "The defense they'll
  offer, the only possible defense, is selfdefense. That Maggie Bradford was
  defending herself against Will Shepherd, that if she hadn't killed him,
  he'd have killed her.
  "Well, I say that's bullshit, and when we're finished with her, so will the
  jury. It's a defense that makes me sick. We're talking about Maggie
  Bradford! She couldn't have gone to the police? She was afraid of him?
  Well, it might have worked in the shooting of her first husband, but it
  sure as hell ain't gonna work here. She's a superstar. Any court in the
  world would have guaranteed her
                   HIDE & SEEK   319

 protection if she'd asked for it. A battered wife? My ass."
  A third pause, a sip of coffee. The three others in his office knew his
  judicial beliefs, were inured to his melodramas. They also understood just
  how good he was at his job-and just how much this particular trial meant to
  his career.
  "Two husbands, two deaths. That's putting a charley horse in the long arm
  of coincidence, as S. J. Perelman once said. But then, then, there's the
  death of a third man in the life of Maggie Bradford. A man she supposedly
  loved most of all.
  "Patrick O'Malley, her live-in lover, died of a heart attack on his boat.
  Well, was it a heart attack? So the autopsy said. But, we don't know what
  brought it on."
  Nizhinski continued speaking in his very controlled voice. "Maggie Bradford
  is a killer. Cold-blooded, basically heartless, and until this last time,
  clever as the devil himself.
  "But we've got her now. Guilty as charged? I've never been so convinced of
  anything in my life!"
  Nizhinski finished, and he looked around at his assistants. "Any questions,
  cubs, or are you too dazzled to speak? Anyone see any way we can lose this
  one? I sure can't."
        CHAPTER 90

 '~ M NO EXPERT on prisons, and don't want to be, but if the Bedford Hills
 Correctional Facility for Women is "one of the most luxurious," then I pity
 the women incarcerated elsewhere. This stinks big time, especially when
 you're innocent; but even if you're not, this can't be the way to proper
 rehabilitation. I am absolutely certain that it isn't.
  I have no cellmate-because I'm a "star." I exercise, and eat the bad food,
  alone. I've made a friend, another woman accused of killing her husband.
  The grim irony isn't lost on either of us.
  I'm surrounded by drug addicts, small-time thieves, gang members,
  arsonists, a few murderers. Jennie visits a few times each week, and I
  can't wait to see her. Allie's been told I'm away, and to mind Mrs. Leigh.
  I miss them so much I can't write about it.
   When I think about my sweet girl, my darling boy, I
                   HIDE & SEEK   321

 can feel my heart ripping-I'm forced to double over with pain. I don't feel
 sorry for myself; I just can't live without the two of them. I can't let
 myself go to pieces, for their sake.

 I finished the last entry before the lights went out. It sounds like a long
 whine, and I'm not like that. Not even locked up in this prison. It is now
 six hours before the trial begins.
  What will ultimately happen? What will the verdict be? I have no idea.
  None, zero, not a clue. When I hear the evidence, will I be any closer to
  the truth? Finally know how it all happened? Who will tell me what lies
  hidden in my heart?
  Will you be closer to the truth? I've told you everything so far. What do
  you feel? Are you sure? Am I telling the truth-or am I just another
  celebrity liar?

  Are you really sure about me?
  When really bad trouble comes, do I simply shoot my way out? Is killing my
  only weapon? Do I have a tendency to get myself involved with monsters?
  Am I a monster myself?
        CHAPTER 91

 HERE WE GO!
 "You ready, Mrs. Bradford? Everything's going to be fine. Ixt's go now.
 We're going to get you inside the courtroom as fast as humanly possible. We
 need your help with that. Keep your head down. Keep walking."
 "I'll do my best, Bill."
 "I know you will."
  More perks. They sent a specially trained guard up from New York City for
  me. A pro at this. His job is to oversee the other guards who'll protect me
  from the press.
  He'll lead me inside, sit near me while the trial's going on, then get me
  back to prison as quickly and easily as he can. Bill Seibert's his name. A
  nice man, actually. Nice manners and an even disposition.
                   HIDE & SEEK   323

  I felt him push me gently from behind, and I tripped slightly as I got out
  of the van. A great start, huh? I could already see the headlines: MAGGIE
  TRIPPED UP ON FIRST DAY!
  I walked into the blinding TV lights, closely packed human bodies, and a
  barrage of embarrassing questions: Did I do it? How did I feel? Was I able
  to write in prison? What were the inmates like? Did I sing any of my songs
  for them? Give me a break!
  The level of stupidity and "high sleaze" was beyond anything I could
  imagine. I felt as though I might be sick. My legs were unsteady as I tried
  to walk. The handcuffs I wore made me feel guilty.
  "Just follow me," Seibert said. "Don't stop for anything. Don't say
  anything to anybody, Mrs. Bradford."
   I did just what he said.
   He was the pro.
  State troopers in cowboy hats could barely hold back the crowd. There were
  a few boos, but cheers too. The scene made me absolutely dizzy. The last
  time I had been in such a crush was in San Francisco-not exactly something
  I wanted to remember now.
  Hands grabbed at me from across the police barricades. Don't touch me.
  Please leave me alone! I don't belong to any of you. The thought of a
  stranger's hand on me made me want to scream out loud. I held it in, held
  everything inside.
  Blessedly, most of the loud, unruly crowd was shut out by a great oak door.
   Suddenly, I was inside the high-ceilinged courthouse
324  James Patterson

 foyer. Court clerks, extra-mostly elderly-policemen, and minor village
 dignitaries stared at me now as though I were an alien from outer space.
 There were the usual black-and-white photos on the white plaster walls lead-
 ing up a marble staircase; state, local, and American flags hung limply on
 gilded poles. It was so unbelievably weird.
  Barry and Nathan hurried to me, Nathan shaking my hand, Barry kissing me on
  the cheek. They followed me inside the crowded courtroom. Everything seemed
  so unreal. Barry and Nathan seemed unreal to me too.
  I actually felt physically sick. I thought I was going to throw up. The
  terrifying excitement seemed to have entered the room like deadly gas.
  Every face turned toward me as if on cue. Ordinary people. Famous writers
  in the gallery.
   This was so horrible, so bad.
  I struggled to keep my head up, to look innocent. I sat beside Nathan at
  the defendant's table; Barry took a seat reserved for him in the front row
  of spectators.
  I held on to the defense table with both hands for support. I was
  trembling. I felt cold and so very alone.
  I looked around for Jennie and Allie. Only Jennie was there, of course. I
  knew that. We waved at each other, and Jennie started to cry. So strange
  and weird and wrong.
  "Hear ye! Hear ye! All people having business with Part Forty-four in this
  court, give attention and ye shall be heard. The Honorable Judge Andrew
  Sussman presiding."
   It was the court clerk's big moment onstage. Every
                  HIDE & SEEK   325

 eye in the crowded room was on him. Good. That meant they were finally off
 me. The trial was beginning. My murder trial.
        CHAPTER 92

  RANGE AS A five-legged station wagon! Norma Breen said to herself. Nuts!
  Crazy! It doesn't add up. There's a piece missing here somewhere.
  Why had one gunshot, fired as Maggie Bradford was falling, been enough to
  kill that sorry bastard husband of hers? But it had, hadn't it. Not much
  question about that.
  She was looking for the hundredth, or maybe the thousandth time at the
  police photographs of the murder site, taken just after Will's body had
  been discovered.
   The body was lying facedown.
   Bad luck, Will . . .
  Or did you plan to have some bad luck? Did you shoot yourself, you sorry
  fuck? Is that your game?
  He had been running away; that much was obvious from the footprints. Maggie
  had chased him and they had struggled. She had shot him in the head. He had
  fallen.
                   HIDE & SEEK   327

 End of story, end of Will Shepherd.
 Beginning of this current knotty mystery.
  Norma felt a tingle travel up her spine. Something didn't mesh. Something
  just wasn't tracking for her. What the hell was it?
  What was the missing piece of this goddamned fiveand-dime jigsaw puzzle?
  She would have to run some more experiments. Call in some favors too. Keep
  all those balls in the air. She would find something to set Maggie Bradford
  free.
   To kill again?
        CHAPTER 93

 RONY OF IRONIES. I thought so anyway. The prosecutor loved my music-at least
 he used to.
   I had met Dan Nizhinski once at a party at Nathan Bailford's house. He was
   there with his wife, an ordinary-looking woman who wore huge, oval-rimmed
   glasses and no makeup. I remember wondering why so attractive a man would
   marry this woman, but when we got a chance to talk, I liked her a lot. The
   Nizhinskis told me they were both fans. Hoopty-doo!
  Well, I didn't like Dan Nizhinski now. He was tall and looked very scary,
  and the way he addressed the jury was like a beloved teacher speaking
  before a class of his best students.
   "He's good," I whispered to Nathan.
  "So are we," he answered, but his confidence did not spill over onto me.
   The jury was made up of a corporate secretary in her
                   HIDE & SEEK   329

 early twenties; a high school principal; two housewives; three retirees, one
 of whom was an ex-army colonel; a freelance writer; two self-employed
 businessmen; a clerk in a Ford dealership; and an actor, "currently unem-
 ployed."
  Six men, six women. Different backgrounds. With the power of God, they
  would somehow set me free. Or so I hoped.

 My biggest fan, Dan Nizhinski, was talking about me again. Not exactly
 singing my praises though.
  "You will hear evidence that the defendant, Maggie Bradford, did plan, over
  a period of several weeks, the murder of her husband, Will Shepherd.
  "You will hear that this calculated murder was accomplished in a
  particularly cold-blooded fashion, as Will Shepherd ran for his life, as he
  tried to escape.
  "You will discover that Will Shepherd was no ideal husband, but whatever
  his sins were, they were not enough to justify murder.
  "And you will be presented with such a body of overwhelming evidence that
  there will be no doubt in any of your minds, as there is none in mine, that
  Maggie Bradford is guilty of murder in the first degree and should be
  punished to the full extent of the law."
  Dan Nizhinski headed for his chair at the prosecutor's table, then stopped
  and returned to the jury, as though what he were about to say had just
  occurred to him, though I'd bet he had rehearsed the movement, and the
  speech, many times.
330   James Patterson

  "One further thing. I forgot one thing. The murderess we are dealing with
  here is not an ordinary woman-"
  "Objection! Your Honor," Nathan Bailford stood up and bellowed. "The
  district attorney has put a label on my client. She's not a 'murderess."'
   "Sustained."
  "-Her name is Maggie Bradford, and it is a household name. She is not the
  woman you see on television; television presents images, not truth. She is
  not as sweet as her voice, as alluring as her melodies, as compassionate as
  her lyrics.
  "You must divorce the public Maggie Bradford, the singer and the
  songwriter, the star, from the real Maggie Bradford, the woman who sits
  before you charged with a hideous crime.
  "Don't be fooled by images, taken in by fame, deluded because this woman
  writes so convincingly of good. The real Maggie Bradford had access to a
  gun. The real Maggie Bradford knew well how to pull the trigger. The real
  Maggie Bradford thought nothing of taking another's life. Why? Because she
  could do anything. She was a star.
  "Well, when a star falls it blazes as it hits the atmosphere and is then
  extinguished. To Maggie Bradford, you, ladies and gentlemen of the jury,
  are her atmosphere, and because you stand for justice, embody justice, she
  will never shine again . . . she must never shine again."
        CHAPTER 94

 ATHAN BAILFORD ROSE and, with passion to match the prosecutor's, outlined
 the defense. Throughout both speeches, I imagined that the lawyers were
 talking about somebody else-the disconnectedness I'd felt ever since I'd
 been accused of shooting Will had returned.
  "The district attorney has painted a picture of a cold-blooded killer,"
  Nathan said in a gruff, dusty whisper. "It's a scary picture, and perhaps,
  when it comes to killers, an accurate one. But it's not a true picture of
  Maggie Bradford, as you'll see when you hear from her friends, from her
  close colleagues, and from her."
  I sat up in my seat. Quickly, I scribbled a note to Barry:

   We agreed that I wouldn't testify. I will not!
   He wrote back: Fine. Then tell us why you shot Will!U
332   James Patterson

 And I: No. I can't do that either. I had told them again and again-I
 wouldn't testify. I couldn't. I had my reasons for remaining silent, even
 if it kept me in prison for the rest of my life.
        CHAPTER 95

 "   R. SHEPHERD?"
      "Speaking."
      "Mr. Shepherd, my name is Norma Breen, and I'm calling you from New
      York. You probably don't know who I am-"
  "Oh, but I do. You're investigating my brother's murder. The lurid tales
  make the front pages here too. How can I help you?"
  "I found a note from you in his possession. A simple note, actually. An odd
  one to keep. It said, `Fuck you, Will.' Can you tell me what that was in
  reference to? And why your brother might have chosen to keep it?"
  There was a brief silence. "Yes, I believe I can. He wanted me to join him
  in a business venture. I was in the States at the time, and he asked me
  over to his house. I said no."
334   James Patterson

  "And that's the language you used? With your brother?"
  "It was the only language he understood. We weren't very close. My brother
  was a crazy bastard, I'm afraid. My brother wasn't my favorite person, I
  might add."
  Norma had known the brothers weren't close. Still"Please tell me why. I
  imagine this must be difficult for you.
  Palmer Shepherd laughed over the telephone. "How much time do you have?
  It's a long story."
   "Lots of time, if you think it'd help."
  "I don't see how it bears on the murder trial. By now, you must know what
  kind of man he was. But I could fly over to see you. Actually, I have a lot
  of sympathy for Maggie Bradford. You can't begin to imagine how much."
  "That's kind of you. I'll certainly ask you to if I think it's necessary."
  "Good. My offer is genuine. Maggie might have killed him. I'm surprised no
  one else did first though."
   "Can you imagine why she might have done it?"
  "I didn't know anything about their marriage. I stayed away on purpose. But
  Will was the Devil, Miss Breen. Will was a bad man. Frankly, whoever did
  it, did the world a service. I believe that with all my heart."
        CHAPTER 96

 THE TRIAL MOVED ahead-very slowly. Day after exhausting day, week by week.
 After testimony was finished on the exhausting twentieth day, Barry and
 Nathan came to visit me in prison. I almost didn't agree to see them.
  I knew they wanted to press me again for an explanation, an alibi-something
  that I couldn't give them. I knew they were worried that the trial wasn't
  going our way.
  "Tell me what you know about Palmer," Barry said once we were together in
  a small conference room used for just such meetings.
  I was somewhat puzzled. It seemed a strange way to begin our conversation.
  Palmer Shepherd?
  "What about him? He's Will's brother, of course. They weren't close. I only
  met him twice. He offered his condolences-at the wedding."
336   James Patterson

 "Was he close to his aunts, do you know?"
 "Not as close as Will was."
  The words came out fast and must have had a ring to them. Barry looked at
  me sharply, then his eyes became sad and distant.
  "You know about Vannie and Will?" he said. "So why didn't you tell us? Why
  did we have to find out from Will's brother?"
  Long-suppressed anger rose. I had to let some of it out. "I don't know
  anything. I might have suspected something. Barry, what are you trying to
  do to me?"
  He looked at me unwaveringly. "Tell me the truth, Maggie. Was she ever in
  your house? Was Vannie ever there?"
  "Only at our wedding." I remembered the image vividly. "She was very
  attractive-his mother's younger sister. You were there, Barry. You saw her.
  Will never got over his mother."
  "I guess not! Did he ever bring any other strange women home?" Nathan
  asked.
  "Never. Why would I allow that? That doesn't make any sense, Nathan."
  "Let me ask again," Nathan said at last. "Will didn't try anything funny in
  the house? You have to trust us, Maggie. You mustn't keep secrets from us.
  Not at this point in the trial. We have to know what the prosecution does."
  I hesitated, just for an instant. I tensed. I didn't like where this was
  going.
  "No," I said. "I don't have anything to tell you. Why would I hold
  something back?"
                   HIDE & SEEK   337

  Barry pounced. "You're lying right now. Dammit, Maggie. You're breaking my
  heart."
  "I swear to you-" I whispered. I was lying, of course. I never lie-but I
  had to now.
  "Who was it?" Barry nearly shouted at me. I'd never seen him this angry
  before. Veins pulsed all over his forehead and neck.

   "Please! . . . Barry, no!"
  His face suddenly went pale. His eyes closed, then slowly opened again. "Of
  course," he said and I could see tears in his eyes.
  He looked toward me with such tenderness and pity that I was sure both our
  hearts would break.
  "Oh my God, of course," he said. "Will was after Jennie, wasn't he?"
  I stood and called for the guard. "Take me back to my cell. Take me back
  right now!"
  I went away with the guard. I wouldn't say another word to either Barry or
  my lawyer. I couldn't, I wouldn't, drag Jennie into this.
CHAPTER 97

 "  HE PROSECUTION CALLS Peter O'Malley."
     I blanched as I heard the words spoken in open
   court. Actually, I was getting used to the feeling of constant anxiety
   and fear. We were twenty-nine days into testimony, most of it very bad
   for me.
  Over strenuous defense objections, Judge Sussman had allowed Nizhinski to
  introduce evidence about the death of Phillip Bradford. Now the district
  attorney planned to get in as much as he could about Patrick's death.
  It would be difficult. He could do no more than imply that I had been
  responsible. But that's what Peter wanted, I knew. To imply, to insinuate,
  to hurt me in any way that he could.
  In a very strange move, the court had been cleared of spectators for the
  testimony. Peter had agreed to talk,
                   HIDE & SEEK   339

 but his lawyer had convinced the judge to allow Peter privacy.
  I didn't understand. Why should Peter be protected? But very soon, I
  understood everything. Peter's testimony took forever in real time-there
  must have been a hundred objections from my lawyers-but the bottom line
  would have sounded something like this.
  "Mr. O'Malley, are you a member of an establishment called the Lake Club?"
   "1 am."
  "The club is located in Bedford Hills? Just off Greenbriar Road?"
   "It is."
   "What is its membership?"
   "About five hundred people."
  "And the activities are those of most country clubsgolf, tennis, swimming,
  dinners, and dancing in the evening?"
   "That's right."
  "Yet the Lake Club provides something more, does it not?"
   "For some members, yes."
  *'Something not available to the full membership, but only to a special
  few."
   "Correct."
   "Are you one of those few?"
   "I was."
   `Who else is among the group?"
   "Prominent people, on the whole."
   "What does the club provide for them?"
340   James Patterson

  "A meeting place, mostly. There are discussions of financial issues,
  matters of government."
   "And after the discussions are over?"
  "There's-entertainment. Not always, but on occasion."
   "I see. Can you describe this entertainment?"
   "Sexual entertainment for the most part."
   "Can you be more specific?"
   "Girls, and sometimes young men, are provided."
   "Prostitutes?"
   "I wouldn't exactly call them prostitutes."
  "They're there for the members' `entertainment,' and they get paid for
  their services?"
   "Yes."
  "Arose by any other name . . . tell me, Mr. O'Malley. Do you reside in
  Bedford Hills?"
   "No. Manhattan and the West Coast."
   "Yet you are a member of the Lake Club?"
   "Yes."
   "You've also participated in these late-night parties?"
   "Yes."
   "Why is that, Mr. O'Malley?"
  "My father, Patrick O'Malley, was a big deal at the club. I was granted
  membership when he died."
   "Did he participate in the after-hours entertainments?"
   "Yes."
   "That is, he slept with young girls."
   "Yes."
  "Did Patrick O'Malley have a relationship with Maggie Bradford?"
   "For many months. Maybe it was a couple of years."
                   HIDE & SEEK   341

 "And do you have a half-brother?" "Yes. They all lived together." "Would
 you say that Patrick O'Malley and Maggie Bradford were in love?" "So my
 father told me." "Yet he did not drop his membership in the club?"

 ®   ¯

 No"Nor stop sleeping with young girls?"
 "I don't know about that."
  "Was Mrs. Bradford aware of these 'entertainments' and your father's part
  in them?"
   "Yes."
   "How do you know?"
  "She had pictures of my father and at least two of the girls."
   "She had pictures?"
  "I found them in her bedroom. Their bedroom. After my father died. I
  helped collect his papers."
   "They were graphic pictures?"
   "Very. My father and two girls."
  "We don't need the details. Not at this time. Mrs. Bradford had
  possession of the pictures?"
   "Yes."
   "What did she think of them?"
   "I don't know. She never told me."
   "What did you think of them?"
  "It's always a shock when a son sees his father in flagrante."
   "Of course. But you weren't surprised."

    77
   ®No.
342   James Patterson

  "Now tell me, Mr. O'Malley, how did your father die?"
   "I don't know."
   "You don't know? How is that possible?"
  "He died on a boat. The cause was supposedly a heart attack."
   " `Supposedly'? He was alone on the boat?"
   "No. Mrs. Bradford was with him."
   "And they were alone together."
  "Yes. The Coast Guard found the boat. Mrs. Bradford told them how he
  died."
   "Did they believe her?"
   "Evidently."
  "Tell me, Mr. O'Malley, did you know Will Shepherd?"
   "Yes."
   "Would you say you were friends?"
   "Social friends."
   "You had business dealings with him?"
   "Yes. Business and social."
  "Ah. Social. Was Will Shepherd a member of the Lake Club?"
   "Yes."
   "Of the club within the club?"
   "Yes."
   "Then he partook of the `entertainment'?"
   "Definitely."
   "Did Maggie Bradford know?"
  Peter O'Malley paused, twisted in his seat, then he looked straight at
  me. "Yes, she did. That's probably why she murdered him."
                   HIDE & SEEK   343

  As I said, there were a hundred objections during the testimony, but that
  was how I remembered it, and I'm sure how the jury did as well. I was
  losing . . . everything that I had ever loved or cared about.
CHAPTER 98

NORMA BREEN CAME to visit me that night just after the dinner hour. She had
become one of my favorite people to see. We were both around the same age,
both from blue-collar backgrounds, and we understood each other.
  "Maggie, I hate to tell you this. I don't like your songs," she started in
  that night. It was Norma's quaint way of saying "hi."
  "Bitch," I said, but I smiled at her. She made me laugh when nobody else
  could; she was my buddy.
  "No, you're the bitch. You won't help me do my job-which is, ironically, to
  help you get out of this zoo."
  I was still smiling. We both were, though the subject was deadly serious.
  You can only be deadly serious for so long, for so many hours, days, months
  in a row.
                   HIDE & SEEK   345

  "I hate to tell you," I told her, "I don't like the way you do your job."
   "Too tough for you, huh? Too edgy?"
  I put my hand across the table on top of hers. She was single, available,
  but probably because of the extra twenty pounds she carried, a lot of men
  were overlooking her. Their mistake. Big mistake.
  "What's on your mind today, sweetie?" I asked her. There was always
  something with her.
  "I want to try to talk you out of your martyr thing. I hate Mother Teresa
  anyway. Stop being a martyr, Maggie."
  "I am a martyr. That's what I had to do to be loved in our family, when I
  was a kid. I can't help myself."
  Norma flipped over my hand, and she clasped it hard. "I love you, Maggie.
  I've learned to, in a very short time for me. A lot of people love you.
  You're unfuckingbelievably lovable."
  I snorted out a laugh-my darkest humor was bubbling up. "Yes, everybody
  loves me but my husbands."
  "Maybe you picked a couple of losers, so you could play martyr? Like you
  said, maybe you can't help yourself, Maggie. Only you can, you can help
  yourself."
  I sighed deeply. I thought that I knew where Norma was going. I was tired
  of hearing it from Barry and Nathan, but suddenly hearing it from Norma,
  from another woman, it sounded a little different.
  "I can't though," I finally said. "Nice try, but I just can't do it. I
  can't put Jennie up there."
  "You can," Norma insisted, and suddenly she began to gush tears. She'd
  never done that before; never com-
  
  346   James Patterson

 pletely let down her guard. Then we were both sobbing, holding hands, and
 crying our eyes out like a couple of old ninnies.
  "I talked to Jennie, Maggie. She says the two of you have to talk. She
  said to tell you this was a `continuation' of Pound Ridge, and that you
  owed her."
CHAPTER 99
FOR THE LAST time, Norma Breen went to Maggie's house in Bedford Hills. She
was convinced she'd missed something; that everybody had. What in God's name
was it though?
  Mildred Leigh met her at the door and offered her a cup of coffee. Allie
  was playing in the living room, and Norma was grateful for the chance to
  talk. She hadn't interviewed Mrs. Leigh at any length; maybe this time she
  could get some useful information.
  "I know you've been over and over this, but tell me about the day of the
  murder," Norma said. "Were you in the house?"
  "Until about six-thirty, then I left. It was my night off." She blushed.
  "And I had a date with Mr. Frazier. Didn't come back till the next morning,
  and then only to find the police and the press and Maggie accused of
  something she would never do."
348   James Patterson

  She seems pleased with herself, Norma thought.
 Makes sense. Her fifteen minutes of fame. "Did anything
 unusual happen before you left?" she asked. "Anything
 you can think of might help Maggie. Say whatever comes
 into your head."
  "It was a day like any other. No, nothing was very different. Nothing I can
  remember. Just like I told the police."
   "The two of them didn't argue? Nothing like that?"
  "They barely saw each other. Mr. Shepherd was in town, in New York for most
  of the day. I didn't hear any fighting."
  "Describe what they did. Anything that you think of, Mrs. Leigh."
  "Well, Maggie, she was in her study. Writing her songs, I guess. She would
  come out to talk with the children during her breaks. She and Allie love to
  play."
   "And Mr. Shepherd?"
  "He got back from the city at some time. Don't know when. Later that night,
  I saw him by the club. He was heading on back to the house."
  Norma was momentarily confused. "You were at the club, Mrs. Leigh? Why were
  you there?"
  "J.C., he has a house there, on the grounds. Opposite side of the main
  building from the parking lot."
  "Do you know what Mr. Shepherd was doing there that night?"
   "No, ma'am. Just saw him walk past J.C.'s."
   "What time was this?"
   "Around ten, ten-thirty. Something like that."
                   HIDE & SEEK   349

 "You only saw him briefly?"
  "Yes, ma'am. J.C. and 1, we had better things to do than watch Mr. Will
  Shepherd."
   "I'm sure."
  What was Will doing by the club that night? It didn't track with what
  Maggie had told her.
  "But he wasn't there for one of the parties? The ones that took place
  late?" Norma asked.
  Mrs. Leigh glanced at her conspiratorially. "J.C. tell you? You know about
  those carryings-on?"
  "Sure do. Did you happen to notice how Mr. Shepherd was dressed that
  night?"
  "It was dark, ma'am. Only thing I know for sure, he was carrying his rifle
  back from the club."
  Norma could feel the small hairs rise on the back of her arms. "His rifle?
  Are you sure?"
  "They shoot skeet there. At the shooting range down past the golf course.
  He often did that."
   "But not on the day he was killed."
  Mrs. Leigh sighed. "I told you. He was in New York most of the day. Left
  real early for him."
   "You told the police all of this?" Norma asked.
  Mrs. Leigh nodded. "Everything that I'm telling you now."
   "About Mr. Shepherd and the rifle?"
   "Of course."
  They finished their coffee. "Thank you, Mrs. Leigh," Norma said. "You've
  been very helpful."
  "Happy to oblige. You see that little boy in there? He's a sweetheart, and
  he loves his mommy. We all want her to come home. We miss Maggie so bad."
350   James Patterson

 "So do 1. Is there a phone I can use?" "In the den. I'll show you." "I can
 find it," Norma said. She had to stop herself from running.
        CHAPTER 100

" ARRY, I'M UP at Maggie's house. I'm onto something. At least I hope so. No,
 I actually think I have something real going."
  Norma had closed the den door behind her, but she nevertheless whispered
  into the phone.
   "I'm listening," Barry said.
  "You know that celebrated rifle in question?" Norma said. "Mrs. Leigh saw
  Will carrying it the night of the shooting. He was out by the country club,
  which more and more seems to be figuring into this brutal mess."
   "Why would he have had the rifle at the Lake Club?"
  "First question I asked myself." Norma's voice rose in her excitement.
  "That's why he went to the club. To fetch it. It's where he must have kept
  it when Maggie told him to get rid of it. She said she looked everywhere
  around the house, but she could never find it. It was at the club."
352   James Patterson

  There was a long pause. Finally Barry said, "Now why would he want to do
  that? Did he stage his own suicide, Norma? Is that it? Did he frame
  Maggie?"
  Norma felt a sudden surge of frustration and bewilderment. "Goddamnit, I
  don't know yet," she said. "Not a clue. That part doesn't make any sense to
  me.
  "But I'll tell you what I do know," Norma spoke again. "The Bedford police
  knew Will went to fetch the rifle, and they kept it to themselves.
  Something's rotten in the state of Bedford, and I'm going to find out what,
  and who, and why."
   "Sic 'em, Norma."
   "Grrrr. "
       CHAPTER 101

 LOOKED AT Jennie as she entered the visiting room and I wanted to cry. I
 wouldn't let myself. I needed
  to be strong now, for both of us. I needed to listen to Jennie.
  I couldn't take my eyes off her though. I'd always loved her, much more
  than I cared about myself. People said we were a lot alike, only I saw
  Jennie as having few, if any, of my faults and weaknesses. We did look like
  each other. Jennie was tall now, almost five nine. Her blond hair was as
  long as mine. We had the same eyes.
  I love you, I thought as she sat across the table from me. I hated the
  table being there, separating us now. I needed to hug Jennie, and to be
  hugged back. Never more than right at that moment, right now.
  Suddenly, she cracked a smile. It was pure Jennie. "I have a message from
  Norma. She says she has proof
354   James Patterson

 that Mother Teresa is total bullshit. That she's actually a Vegas act, in it
 for the money."
 I laughed out loud at the joke.
  "Norma's trying to help you, Mom," Jennie leaned across the table and said
  in her most mature voice.
   "I think I know that, Jen. How are you?"
  Jennie rolled her eyes. "Believe it or not, I'm good. I'm not great, but
  I'm okay." She blew me two kisses. "Those are from Allie. Actually, he sent
  you a hundred kisses."
   "Does he still remember who I am?"
  She rolled her eyes again. "We make him watch videos of your concerts so
  that he doesn't forget. We read him your letters, show him your pictures.
  I'm here to talk about something else. We're going to talk, Mom dear."
  "I understand," I said to Jennie. "I respect your wishes."
  "Good, that's a neat start. Now, I think you have to ask me questions,
  because you have certain ideas in your head, but I'm not sure what they
  are. So we'll employ the Socratic method."
  I smiled. "I'm not even going to ask you about your grades."
   "Tops in my class. Stay on track. Stay with me here."
  This was the hardest yet, the worst thing I'd been through. Yes, I had
  certain ideas in my head. No, l wasn't ready to talk about them. Maybe 1
  would never be ready.
  "I guess we could start with the night of the . . . of Will's death," I
  said.
   "That's a very good place to begin-at the end."
                   HIDE & SEEK   355

  "I saw Will up in your room. What was he doing there, Jennie?"
   "He came to say good night."
  There was an innocence in Jennie's words that made me stare. "That's all?
  Jennie, you can't lie, either to protect Will, or even my feelings. Are we
  agreed about that?"
  "Sure. Those are the game rules. We're agreed. Now, let's play."
  "You tell me the truth, and I'll do the same. Anything you want to know.
  About Will's death."
   Jennie's eyes stayed on mine. "I do have questions."
   "First me, then you, okay?"
   She nodded. "Yep. That's fine with me."
  I didn't know exactly where to go next with my questions. I picked an
  obvious place.
   "Did Will come to your room to say good night often?"
  "He did sometimes. He'd bring me warm milk. He said that his aunt used to
  bring him tea, when he was a boy in England."
  The mention of Will's aunt startled me, though Jennie couldn't have known
  why. I took a deep breath. I didn't know if I could go on with this. Prison
  wasn't the place I wanted to have this kind of talk with Jennie.
  She reached for my hand. "Can I try to make this easier . . . for both of
  us?"
  "If you think you can," I whispered. I didn't have much of a voice left. I
  felt hollowed out, empty. Out of it. Unreal.
  "Will was very complicated. You already know that. I think he, I think part
  of him, actually wanted to be a
356   James Patterson

 good father. He would come up to my room and talk sometimes, just talk. I
 think he wanted to prove he could be there and just talk. He told me a lot
 about when he was growing up. He was a good listener. Sometimes."
 "Yes, he could be," I remembered.
  "I had a wicked crush on him, Mom. I thought he was so beautiful, like a
  god, like Ralph Fiennes or Mel Gibson on steroids. I used to think about
  him all the time."
   "But nothing ever happened?"
  "I know he told you that he did, that we did-4 was there, I heard it-but
  nothing ever happened, Mom. You don't have to protect me. Please believe
  me, nothing happened."
  I put both my hands up to Jennie's face. I wanted to be even closer, but
  that was the best we could do in this horrifying place.
  "Let me be your witness, Mom. Please, please, let me do that for you? I
  need to help you, just this once I think I can. Nothing happened between
  Will and me. You don't have to protect me."
       CHAPTER 102

 NORMA BREEN WAS in one of her usual bitching, grousing moods when she
 arrived at the Lake Club. The missing goddamn pieces to the puzzle! They're
 around here somewhere, she kept telling herself, hoping that it might come
 true if she said it enough.
  She had come to the club, specifically, to see J. C. Frazier. J.C. was in
  his late forties, his face weathered by the outdoors, his body trim and
  well muscled.
  Well, he's a looker, Norma Breen thought as she sat with him on the porch
  of the main building at the Lake Club. Now, let's hope he's a goddamn
  talker.
  Norma eased into things, convincing J.C. to verify what she already knew:
  that there were late-night "parties" at the club; and that Will Shepherd
  had been an invited guest on several occasions.
  "Would there be a list of names anywhere?" she asked. "Of the party boys?"
358   James Patterson

  The groundskeeper shrugged his broad shoulders. "If there is, I've never
  seen one. I sure doubt it."
  "Then tell me some of the names. People you've seen here after hours.
  C'mon, J.C."
  J.C. shook his head. "Couldn't do that. If anyone found out I had told, I'd
  lose my job. I'm not even supposed to know about it."
   "But you told me about Mr. Shepherd."
  "I'm trying to help you. I just can't help as much as you might like."
  "Dammit, this is a murder investigation. What you know might save Mrs.
  Bradford's life!"
  J.C. shifted uneasily in his chair. "I realize that. That's why I'm talking
  to you. Only don't make me tell you the names. That, I can't do."
  Norma glared at him. It didn't seem to make any difference though. "Then at
  least show me where. Let me take a peek for myself."
   "Oh, Ms. Breen, if I did that-"
  "If you don't I'll have you subpoenaed and you can testify about it in open
  court." Grrrr, take that!
  He winced. "The entrance, then. Only if anybody asks me, I'll say you found
  it yourself."
   "It's a deal." Norma smiled. "Now show me."
        CHAPTER 103

 THE TWO OF them followed a winding path all the way around to the far side
 of the clubhouse. There was a heavy wooden door there that looked like it
 would only be used by the maintenance staff. J.C. Frazier had a key.
  "This is it, huh?" Norma asked. It was cold and dark on that side of the
  building. Like the black hearts of the lousy bastards who come here to get
  their kicks.
  Inside, Norma found it was comparable to the rest of the exclusive club.
  She and J.C. walked back through a deserted billiard room. There seemed to
  be a gauzy haze hanging in the air.
  They entered a surprisingly elegant barroom with mahoghany paneling
  everywhere. Norma knew that this was the place. The club within a club. The
  rich boy's playroom.
360   James Patterson

  "This is where they met, right? It's where they had their sex parties?"
  "Yes ma'am," J.C. muttered. He seemed serious and withdrawn.
  Norma could almost picture "the boys club." Their expensive clothes, the
  best whiskeys, their high-andmighty demeanor, their prostitutes. She wasn't
  sure about it, but she sensed that this room might be central to Maggie's
  defense. She believed there was even the possibility that one of the club
  members had killed Will Shepherd.
  Had Will finally fucked the wrong wife? Or screwed one of these powerful
  men in a business deal? Done something else to get himself murdered? Norma
  thought it was very possible that he had.
  "Pour yourself a drink, J.C.," she said to the groundskeeper of the Lake
  Club, "then plop your butt down. We have to talk. We're going to talk."
   He shook his head. "I can't do that."
  Norma pointed her hand at the much taller and larger man. "Listen, you, and
  listen good. Maggie Bradford might yet be convicted of murder, but not
  because you held the truth back. You talk to me, now, or you'll lose your
  job for sure, and you'll lose a whole lot more than that. That's a promise
  I'll keep."
  J. C. Frazier walked to the bar and he poured himself a shot of Maker's
  Mark.
  "Good choice," Norma said. "Make that two shots, one for me. Then you can
  tell me exactly who was part of this club within a club. I want the names.
  I want every name that you know."
                    HIDE & SEEK   361

  J. C. Frazier poured Norma Breen a drink, then they both sat at the
  wood-paneled bar. Finally, J.C. began to talk. He even cried.
  When he was through, Norma couldn't believe what she had heard. She could
  not believe it. Jesus, capital H, Christmas!
  Everything just changed, Norma thought. My God, the whole world just moved.
  The enemy blinked. Gotcha, you lousy bastards. Gotcha.
        CHAPTER 104

 fOW GROWN UP she is, how composed, and close
 o being a woman, I thought as Jennie walked to
 o
 the stand to begin her testimony in court. Her face seemed to glow; her long
 blond hair was shining. Jennie looked so confident and serene. I wished I
 could say the same for myself.
  Nathan led her through her story with extreme care. How Will came to see
  her on that fatal night. How he was standing at the foot of the bed,
  "leering" at her, when I came in.
  4'Jennie and I were just about to have some fun. Care to join us in bed?
  Menage a trois!' That's what he told my mother. I don't know why he said
  it, but he did," she told the jury. There was no way they couldn't believe
  her.
  And as Jennie repeated Will's words, I felt the same paralyzing rage that
  had overcome me then. I'm
                   HIDE & SEEK   363

 glad he's dead, I thought. It's horrifying, but I am glad.
  Nathan took less than forty minutes with her. That was our agreement, and
  he had practically signed it in blood. He finished, and then he sat down
  next to me. He took my hand and I squeezed his. "Thank you, Nathan," I
  whispered to him, "for being so patient with me."
   "Thank you for trusting me," Nathan whispered back.
  The jury's faces remained impassive, but I could see that the women at
  least were touched by Jennie.
  I had not killed in self-defense, I had killed defending my daughter. Now
  they knew. Jennie had done what she'd meant to do.
  Unfortunately, now came the bad part. Dan Nizhinski slowly approached the
  witness stand. A killer whale, I thought, about to eat a minnow. He's doing
  this to get famous. That's all this is to him: instant fame and celebrity
  status.
  "Miss Bradford-Jennie," he began softly, almost apologetically.
  "Please don't call me by my first name." Jennie met his stare and did not
  waver. "You don't know me, Mr. Nizhinski."
   The prosecutor sighed. Score one for Jennie.
  "You have a good friend by the name of Millie Steele?" he asked after the
  briefest pause. It was hard to knock Nizhinski off his game.
  Jennie seemed surprised by the question. "Yes, I do," she said.
  "She's your best friend, isn't she?" the prosecutor continued. He was being
  unusually nice.
364   James Patterson

  Jennie hesitated, then she finally nodded. I could see her mind working,
  trying to figure out where he was heading with the questions.
  "You'll have to answer the question verbally, Miss Bradford," Judge Sussman
  spoke from the bench. "Is Millie Steele your best friend?"
  Nathan Bailford slowly rose from the defense table. "Objection, Your Honor.
  I don't see what Miss Bradford's relationship to Miss Steele has to do with
  this case. Need I remind everyone, Miss Bradford is only fifteen years old.
  This trial, especially this testimony, is an unbelievably painful
  experience for her, and it should be kept as brief as possible."
  "Your Honor," Nizhinski responded, "the jury will soon see exactly where
  this line of questioning is leading. It's an important point, I promise
  you."
  "Proceed," Sussman said. "I'll hold you to your promise though. Tread very
  lightly."
  Nizhinski moved closer to Jennie, and I flinched. I didn't like that one
  bit. I could tell Jennie didn't either.
  "You talk to Millie Steele a lot? At school? Sometimes after school?"
  "Yes, sir. Before school too," Jennie said and she smiled. So did everyone
  on the jury.
  I could see she was still puzzled though. Where was he leading her? Watch
  out! I wanted to call to her.
  "Would you ever lie to your friend? Have you ever lied to her, that you can
  remember?"
   "No. Millie and I don't lie to each other."
  "Then listen to this, Jennie. On the thirteenth of October, your best
  friend Millie Steele made the following
                   HIDE & SEEK   365

 statement at the Bedford Hills police station-" He paused, and opened the
 thick binder he had carried with him to the witness stand. The binder was
 intimidating in itself, thick, with a black leather cover.
  " `Jennie was in love with her stepfather. She told me time and time again
  she wanted-she wanted-well, she wanted to go to bed with him, and would try
  anything to seduce him.' "
  Nizhinski closed the folder gently. "Did you tell Millie Steele that you
  were in love with Will Shepherd?"
  What's he doing to her? I thought as my stomach clenched. Yes, she had a
  crush on Will.
  "Yes, but-" Jennie tried to answer the question he'd asked.
  "Just answer yes or no, please. Were you in love with your stepfather?"
 He's torturing her! He should be stopped right now.
 "Nathan?" I whispered.
   "Wait, Maggie. Listen."
   "I had a crush on Will. Yes, sir."
   "Did you ever try to seduce him?"
   "Not really."
  "That's not answering my question, Miss Bradford. Yes or no: Did you try to
  seduce him?"
   "Yes. In a way I guess."
   "Did you go to bed with him?"
  "No! You're such a bad person! No!" Jennie told the prosecutor. "No!"
   No! Thank God! Now let her go.
  "Then where did you make love with him? Millie Steele says that you did!"
366   James Patterson

 "We never made love!"
  "Forgive me, but that's difficult to believe. You're an attractive young
  woman, Jennie. Will Shepherd was susceptible to attractive young women.
  We've heard that again and again in this courtroom. Are you telling me that
  even though you threw yourself at him, he refused? His reputation says
  otherwise!"
  Jennie finally began to cry. Her sobs were the only sounds in the
  courtroom. She was a young girl again.
   "Nathan, please," I whispered again.
   Nizhinski, relentless, moved even closer to Jennie.
  "In fact, isn't it true that you and he had been lovers for months? That
  the defense contention your mother killed him to protect you is therefore
  nonsense. That your mother killed him for revenge?"
  "I didn't throw myself at him! He never touched me! He never did anything
  indecent, like you're doing now."
  Nizhinski took a step back and stared at her. "Do you know what perjury
  is?"
   She nodded.
  "Answer yes or no, please. The court stenographer can't record a nod."
   "Yes." Her voice was faint.
   "Do you know what the penalty is for perjury?"
  "Not exactly. Will you unjustly put me in prisonlike you did to my mother?"
  "The penalty for perjury can mean jail, but there's no injustice here, Miss
  Bradford. Your mother killed Will Shepherd because she thought the two of
  you were having an affair."
                  HIDE & SEEK   367

  Nathan was on his feet beside me. "Objection! Objection!"
  "No further questions," Dan Nizhinski said and walked away from Jennie.
  The courtroom erupted all around us. It took minutes before the banging of
  Judge Sussman's gavel caught anyone's attention.
  Jennie was led from the witness box. She was crying. I reached my arms out
  to her, but I couldn't touch her.
  "It's all right, Mom," she said. "Nobody can hurt us. Nobody can hurt us
  anymore."
   I only wished that were true.
        CHAPTER 105

 NORMA BREEN CHEWED on Rolaids, tasty, orange-flavored ones, as she sat in
 court and listened to the closing arguments. She had a secret, an absolute
 mindblower, and she had to bite her tongue to keep from blurting it out.
  Maybe we can throw out this bullshit trial, Norma thought as she sat in the
  back row of spectators. Or maybe, despite all the evidence, Maggie will be
  acquitted. Maybe the jury will see that she had to kill-and let her off on
  a technicality. Or at least give her the lightest sentence permissible
  under the law, the least punitive verdict. And maybe Mel Gibson will call
  me for a date while I'm sitting here on my oversized rump. You never know,
  right?
  Norma had decided that her best strategy was to wait for the verdict. And
  now, as she listened to Nathan Bailford's rebuttal, a spark of hope
  glimmered in her
                   HIDE & SEEK   369

 heart. This is a good woman. Spare her. It's only right. Do the right thing,
 huh.
  In his redirect, Nathan had interpreted the facts so succinctly that Norma
  was left feeling that Maggie was the victim, Will the killer.
  Still, the defense lawyer couldn't change the fact that Will was dead,
  Maggie alive. And he couldn't solve the other important question-if Maggie
  hadn't, then who had killed Will?
  The prosecutor got up and immediately dismissed Nathan's case as a
  smokescreen. Murder was murder. That's what it was; there was no other name
  for it. Murder with a single motive: revenge. And because Maggie had picked
  up the gun, brought it knowingly into her daughter's room, it was
  premeditated murder, and deserved the maximum penalty: a life sentence.
  Yet with it all, Norma considered, something is terribly wrong about this
  trial.
  She was still uncomfortable. It was the gut feeling she'd had from the very
  start. Maggie did not kill Will Shepherd. She was convinced of that. Will
  had committed suicide, hadn't he? According to Maggie, and even Palmer,
  he'd been threatening to do it for years. This was his final, terrible
  revenge against Maggie.
  Maybe if they had put Maggie on the stand, a reason would have emerged.
  Norma had reluctantly agreed with Barry and Nathan that such a strategy was
  a mistake. Maggie could only verify her statement to the policethat she
  didn't know for sure what happened, that she might have killed him-but it
  was a close call, and
370   James Patterson

 now Norma was second-guessing everything about the defense effort.
 Everything.
  Ah well, it was too late for second guessing. Nathan Bailford finished
  his closing statement and wearily sat down.
   The forty-six-day drama was finally over.
   It was next to impossible to read the jurors' faces.
  Yet Norma could guess: Maggie Bradford was going to be convicted of
  murder.
  And then, she thought to herself, the real fireworks can begin.
       CHAPTER 106

" EVER IN DOUBT. It wasn't even close, sports fans. To the victors! To us!"
     Dan Nizhinski sat back in his chair, took a big sip of pilsner, and
     beamed at his three associates.
 "To the victors!" the group chanted.
  "What was it?" he asked, as if he didn't know the answer, "the all-time
  record for fastest verdict in a major murder case?"
  "Not to suck-ass too much, but you did a great job, Dan," Moira Lowenstein,
  his youngest associate, said. "You got the jury to waive their emotions and
  look hard at what actually happened. No mean feat. You got them to realize
  that if they let her go, they subverted the whole system of justice."
  "I couldn't have done it without you all," Nizhinski said, insincerely,
  leaving them with the impression he could have succeeded just as well with
  anyone else.
372   James Patterson

  "What's next for you, boss?" Bob Stevens, Nizhinski's closest associate,
  helped himself to his fourth beer in less than an hour.
  Nizhinski grinned. He was still performing, couldn't turn it off. "To tell
  you the truth, I haven't made up my mind. The exposure during the trial
  won't hurt. I have to admit that, I guess."
  "And the state could use some cleaning up," Moira added. Peter Eisenstadt,
  the third associate-the quiet one-glared at her. Yeah, and guess who wants
  to go to Albany on your shirttails, boss?
  "I'll decide in due course," Nizhinski said. They all knew he would run for
  something big. "For now, let's enjoy the moment." He raised his beer can.
  "To a great victory."
  "To victory," his colleagues echoed, and they all drank, laughed,
  congratulated one another.
   Then the phone rang.
   Dan Nizhinski picked it up himself. "Nizhinski."
  "Kahn," the caller said. "Barry Kahn." Something in his voice chilled the
  prosecutor. "Norma Breen and I are coming right over to your office. She's
  discovered something that might interest you."
        CHAPTER 107

 GUILTY
 Guilty.
 The word rang in my head like a religious chant. No, it was more like a
 dirge. Guilty. I'll go mad in prison. I'm already half-mad.
  Norma and Barry came to see me as soon as I was transported back here from
  court today. They were full of smiles and secrets. Don't worry, they told
  me. They would start appeal proceedings immediately in a higher court.
  Everything was going to be all right.
  How could it be?A life in jail isn't "all right. " Trust me on that.
  I know there are appeals, and that my fate won't be decided for months,
  probably years. Still, the chances for reversal are small, no matter what
  anybody says. My chances are terrifyingly bad.
   So why was Norma hopeful and cheerful? Why did
374   James Patterson

 Barry press me so hard to remember exactly what happened the night I shot
 Will when I've gone over it, and gone over it? Simple answer: They wanted to
 try and take my mind off what had just happened.
 Guilty.
 The Scarlet M still emblazoned on my chest.
  I guess I never really expected this. I'd hoped that in the end I would go
  free. It just didn't happen that way.
   Guilty.
       CHAPTER 108

 THAT NIGHT IN my cell, I stayed up until two, maybe three in the morning. I
 lay with my eyes closed, trying futilely to recapture lost images of my life
 on the outside. Allie. Jennie. Concerts I'd had. Finally, exhaustion
 overcame frustration. I fell asleep.
  I didn't dream. It was as though I had fallen away into nothingness. The
  long, long fall from grace continues. A bottomless pit.
   I awakened to a shock.
  A gray parade of police officials was standing outside the cell, led by
  Warden Serra herself.
   I glanced at my clock.
  It was quarter past six in the morning.
   I didn't get it, didn't understand.
   I blinked, blinked, blinked.
   Warden Serra and the others were still there.
   Why were they here? What had happened?
376   James Patterson

 Was I going to be moved to another prison?
 Was I actually awake, seeing what I 'thought I saw?
  I doubted it. This wouldn't be the first time I'd confused a dream and
  reality in here.

  Warden Serra?
  All these other people?
  "Aren't you a little early?" I finally asked. My eyes were slowly adjusting
  to the harsh light of the corridor.
  "Please get dressed, Mrs. Bradford," Maureen Serra said. "We've received a
  call from the courthouse. Something's come up. You're wanted in Judge
  Sussman's chambers immediately."
       CHAPTER 109

 FELT COLD and was shaking all over as three guards led me through the empty
 courthouse. I didn't under-
  stand what could be happening. Neither did anyone from the prison.
   What was going on now? What could this be?
  There were four people in the judge's chambers when I arrived. Judge
  Sussman sat behind a large mahogany desk. To his right sat Nathan Bailford,
  looking somber, but successful, as always.
  Barry, sitting forward on a leather couch on the left side of the room,
  winked at me, but he didn't smile.
  Only Norma Breen, dressed in a green tweed skirt and bulky brown sweater
  and sitting next to Barry on the couch, seemed relaxed. "Hi, Maggie," she
  said; she was the only one to actually speak to me.
   "Hello, Norma. Everybody," I whispered. It all
378   James Patterson

 seemed surreal, as though I were dreaming. What in God's name was happening
 now?
  There was an empty chair next to Sussman's, and he motioned toward it. In
  a daze, I did as I was told.
  Sitting, I could look at the faces of the others-the same view that Judge
  Sussman had, as though I had gone from defendant to part of the judicial
  team. I liked that a lot.
  Papers were shuffled. Briefcases snapped open. Coffee container lids
  removed.
  The briefcases, the papers, the store-bought coffee reminded me that these
  people were different from me, that they led different lives from outside
  a prison.
   Still, no one spoke to me, not even Nathan Bailford.
  They were waiting for someone to arrive. Dan Nizhinski? Somebody else? Who?
  I wished that someone would tell me why I was here, then maybe I could stop
  quivering. My mind was racing badly.
  "Mrs. Bradford," Judge Sussman finally spoke to me. "Ms. Breen has
  discovered some remarkable information," he announced. "We're only waiting
  for the district attorney-ah, here he is. Dan, welcome."
  Nizhinski strode into the room like a matador into a bullring, stance
  erect, expression fierce, afraid of no one. I thought of Norma's line on
  Nizhinski: a putz of the first order, she called him.
  He looked straight at Nathan Bailford. "What's this meeting about? If you
  think you can get the verdict overturned because of some technicality-"
                   HIDE & SEEK   379

  "It's hardly a technicality," Judge Sussman interrupted the prosecutor.
  "Tell him your story, Ms. Breen. Please, have a seat, Dan. I think you'll
  need one in a minute."
  Norma rose slowly. She glanced at me, then directly at Dan Nizhinski, who
  had stopped pacing and was watching her warily, not quite the same
  confident matador he had been a moment ago.
  When Norma spoke, it was in an assured and commanding voice. This was her
  time in the spotlight.
  "During the trial, Maggie, you may remember Mr. Nizhinski took testimony
  from Peter O' Malley. He spoke about `private parties' late in the night at
  the Lake Club, where, I believe, you have been a dinner guest from time to
  time. You had dinner at the club proper, of course."
  I nodded, still having no idea where Norma was heading. "It's kind of where
  I met Will, actually. I couldn't join if I wanted to. There are no women
  members."
  "I'm sorry," Nizhinski spoke up impatiently. "What does any of this have to
  do with Mrs. Bradford's trial? She shot her husband. The jury's said so.
  It's over, Ms. Breen."
  "It has everything to do with it," Norma said. "The new evidence-who
  attended private stag parties at the club, and who their guests
  were-suggests that lots of people might have had a motive to harm Will
  Shepherd. We have evidence that Mr. Shepherd was very indiscreet about the
  existence of these parties, as he was indiscreet about much of his life.
  There could even have been a nasty cover-up during the trial, shielding
  members, hid-
  380   James Patterson

 ing a motive any of them could have for killing Will Shepherd."
  "Then that evidence should have been presented at the trial. It's too late
  now. The verdict's been rendered." Nizhinski was as cocksure as ever.
  I could see the tension in everyone. My own throat was dry. My stomach was
  a clenched fist. Only Norma seemed calm. Now turned prosecutor herself, she
  was relentless.
  "It's my opinion-and I should add that it's also the opinion of the
  attorney general of the state of New York-that Maggie Bradford may have
  been the victim of an elaborate and very vicious cover-up. A cover-up known
  to, indeed perhaps instigated by, the Bedford chief of police."
   "I object to this!" Dan Nizhinski shouted.
  "Let her finish," Judge Sussman said. He seemed to be enjoying this almost
  as much as Norma was.
  "Important people, leaders of industry, banking, and the media have been
  protected from police investigation-possibly from prosecution on criminal
  charges here in Bedford," Norma went on.
  She exchanged a glance with the district attorney. "Please don't look quite
  so ill yet, Mr. Nizhinski. It gets much worse."
  She was a performer now, a star. No audience has ever listened more
  intently.
  "You're right, Mr. Nizhinski. All this would have nothing to do with the
  trial of Maggie Bradford except for one important thing: Maggie's defense
  counsel, the man who knew what I'm telling you, and should have
                   HIDE & SEEK   381

 acted upon it in Mrs. Bradford's defense, couldn't possibly have done so.
  "Because the defense counsel himself is a member of the secret club.
  Nathan Bailford is a member!"
        CHAPTER 110

 0NE LOOK AT Nathan's twisted, ashen face and I understood that Norma was
 right. The look alone was proof of his guilt. My attorney-my friendwas up on
 his feet. He was spluttering with outrage, but I saw the lies behind his
 words; I saw the humiliation in his eyes, the betrayal, the selfishness and
 evil of what he had done.
  "Judge Sussman," Nathan said. "These are the most salacious lies,
  drug-induced dreams or fantasies I've ever heard. I can't believe we're
  here listening to this."
  "No, they're not lies," Norma shot back at him. "I have witnesses. The
  groundskeeper at the Lake Club, and two of the porters. I also have a sworn
  statement from a member of the club within a club. One of your pals."
  She pointed at him, and he staggered back, as though there were bullets in
  Norma's fingers. "May God, no,
                   HIDE & SEEK   383

 may Maggie Bradford and her poor children forgive you. I sure as hell can't.
 You've disgraced yourself, and your already disgraceful profession. You've
 nearly helped convict an innocent woman. My God, Nathan. I hope they put you
 in jail for a hundred years. Will you do that, Judge Sussman?"
  I sat very still, tightly gripping the armrest of my chair. My cheeks were
  hot, and waves of light-headedness came and went.
  Hold on, I kept saying to myself. Be calm now. This is really happening.
  This isn't a dream. You aren't back in your prison cell. You're right here.
  This is real.
  Then suddenly I was in Norma's and Barry's arms. I was shaking like crazy.
  We were all crying. Norma must have read my mind. "It's really happening,
  Maggie," she said. "We were still talking with the attorney general late
  last night, or we could have let you know."
  We embraced for a long time. I can't begin to describe how it was with me,
  but I've never experienced anything close to the relief I felt that day. I
  was completely out of it, euphoric, but I knew what had just happened. I
  knew. I knew.
  "Obviously I'll have to declare a mistrial," Sussman said to Nizhinski, his
  voice cutting into my consciousness, "but you may want to retry. Nothing
  here obviates the fact that Will Shepherd was killed and the detectives say
  Mrs. Bradford has admitted shooting him. We'll have to give her time to
  hire a new lawyer and prepare her defense. She might even want to change
  her strategy. Can you tell me what you plan to do?"
   Nizhinski was actually speechless for several seconds.
384   James Patterson

 "This is all-well, it's a shock," he finally managed to say. "I don't know
 what I'll decide. I need some time to regroup, Your Honor."
 "When you do, call me," Sussman said.
  Barry spoke to the judge. "I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know the right
  legal words, but do you think Mrs. Bradford could be allowed to go home?"
  Sussman turned and looked at me. "She is released on her own recognizance,
  " he said.
       CHAPTER 111

 LIKE THE YOGI Berra saying-it was deja vu all over again. But it had to be
 done this way. This was our justice system, in all its glory.
  Months had passed. The second trial was about to begin, and if anything, it
  would probably be more disheartening than the first. The State still
  believed that I was guilty of murder, and because they insisted on trying
  me again, so did a lot of people.
  I continued to wear the scarlet M. I felt as though great chunks of my life
  were being chiseled out of me. Probably, because they were. And I was hurt.
  I arrived at the courtroom with Jennie, Barry, and Norma. Barry and Norma
  were an odd couple now, but sweet and wonderful to watch. Amazingly, they
  weren't too grumpy around each other.
  Once we were inside the courtroom, I walked on steady legs to a familiar
  seat at the defense table. My
386   James Patterson

 new lawyer was Jason Wade, from Boston. He was an expert in murder defenses,
 very no-nonsense, and I liked him. Most important of all, he wasn't Nathan
 Bailford, who was now a permanent fixture in my bad dreams.
 Weird, weird, so very weird.
  "Maggie looks so great!" I heard one of the spectators say. Maggie! As if
  we were old best friends.
  "You do. You look fantastic," Jennie whispered against my ear. It was like
  old times between us, only better. Jennie was one of those rare people you
  could stay up with all night, just talking. I had-only the night before.
  Even Allie had stayed up with us past ten. JAM was back together again.
  The trial took eleven weeks. Our tax money at work! The same people gave
  much of the same testimony, though the cross-examination had a different
  slant, headed in a different direction.
  The courtroom became increasingly hot as the summer wore on, but I didn't
  mind the heat, didn't mind the repetitiousness of the questioning, didn't
  even mind the notoriety and the consant sleaze of the press.
  I wanted to be found innocent. But more than anything, I wanted to be freed
  from the purgatory I had lived in for so long.
   I wasn't guilty. I was sure of that.
   I was innocent.
  I would have given everything I had just to hear those words uttered once.
       CHAPTER 112

 LEANED FORWARD to hear each and every word inside the jam-packed courtroom.
 Suddenly, I couldn't force enough air into my lungs. I felt as though a dry
 cloth were blocking my throat. Claustrophobia was striking again.
  The faces in the courtroom were becoming blurry and ill-defined. Blood
  pounded in my brain like small hammers. The back of my neck was sopping
  wet.
  The twelve jury members were slowly filing into the right side of the room.
  Again.
   They had reached a verdict.
  Again.
  I could not get my breath as the folded piece of paper was handed to Judge
  Sussman. He read the verdict to himself, then passed it back to the jury
  foreman. The procedure was necessary, I suppose, but cruel.
388   James Patterson

 "Publish the verdict," Judge Sussman instructed.
  "We love you, Mom," Jennie, sitting behind me, whispered. Norma slid her
  arm around my shoulder. Barry stroked my hair from the row of seats behind.
  My family, my friends, I couldn't leave them again, but that was a distinct
  possibility now. That morning, USA Today had the odds of acquittal at even.
  People were actually betting on the outcome in Vegas and London.
  My mouth seemed to be filled with cotton. I was numb all over. I was
  sitting in that courtroom, and yet somehow I wasn't there at all.
  The foreman began to speak. His voice was highpitched, and yet surprisingly
  distant, as though there were a screen between him and the rest of the
  courtroom. There wasn't another sound.
   "We find the defendant, Maggie Bradford, not guilty."
   Not guilty.
   Not guilty.
  I had to close my eyes. I felt so tired and weak, and strangely, not
  completely relieved for some reason. I was only vaguely aware of cheers in
  the courtroom. People were congratulating me-Jason Wade and Norma, Jennie
  and Barry. Faces loomed before me like enormous balloons. The sound was as
  blurred as the images. Everything seemed incredibly odd and queer.
   "Oh, Maggie, you did it! You won!"
  How could this simple moment be so confusing to me? I was rushed from the
  tumultuous courtroom, enfolded in a safe cocoon of lawyers and friends and
  my precious family. Surrounding us were the press and fans. Faces
                   HIDE & SEEK   389

 were pushing microphones at me, screaming questions, begging for an
 autograph, even now.
  Jason Wade would have to deal with them. My lawyer could answer their
  questions. Sign their autographs too.
  I was actually pushed, like someone on wheels, through th~avernous foyer,
  then much too fast down the steps of the courthouse, and into a waiting
  car. Not a limo, just a regular car. I had insisted on that.
  I jumped at what sounded like a gunshot. Pain pierced my heart. The
  automobile door had slammed shut!
  Then the "regular" car started to slowly move through the press of people
  who had been waiting outside for a glimpse of me, win or lose. The car
  floated behind an escort of police cruisers, sirens crying, revolving red
  roof lights casting shadows on the faces of the onlookers.
  I remembered the MP car in West Point. Its light was revolving too, only
  there were no onlookers, and it was so cold. I remembered so many scenes
  leading up to this moment.
  I watched out the car window. People forming the tremendous crowd clogging
  Broadway and Clarke Street seemed to be clapping and cheering, shouting out
  my name. I couldn't relate to any of it.
  I held Jennie and Allie tightly, never wanting to let go of them. They held
  me back. We were JAM again: Jennie, Allie, Maggie.
  "I love you so much, Mom," Jennie whispered and kissed me on the cheek.
  "You're my heroine in shining armor."
   "And you're mine," I told her.
390   James Patterson

  "Mommy," Allie said, and hugged my side. "My mommy."
  "Allie." I kissed the top of his head. "My Allie and my Jennie."
       CHAPTER 113

"MAGGIE! MAGGIE BRADFORD!" the crowd of idiots shouted at her car.
      The murderer clapped and cheered too, pretending delight at the scene.
      He was concealed in the crowd choking the Bedford Village crossroads.
      Well concealed.
  The murderer watched as Maggie's car passed by, then finally disappeared
  around a street corner.
   Then the murderer disappeared as well.
BOOK SIX
Hide 8e Seek
Again
                                     
       CHAPTER 114

 FIFrH AVENUE. EASTERTIME. New York City. Delightful! Absolutely the place to
 be, no?
 The world's most beautiful women were on parade. Primping, prancing,
 shopping their little hearts out.
  And every one of them eminently fuckable, Will thought. Every one could be
  mine for the wooing. Some things never change. They just get better and
  better.
  He strolled among them, in no particular hurry, early for his appointment.
  He was dressed in khaki slacks and blue blazer. His dyed-black hair was cut
  short and meticulously combed.
   The Black Arrow, he thought and smiled thinly.
  Some of the women definitely looked at him-as well they might, he thought.
  He hadn't lost much as far as appearances went. If anything, he looked even
  better
396   James Patterson

 nowadays. Dark and mysterious, right? Just the way so many women liked their
 fantasy lovers.
  At Fifty-ninth Street, he turned east toward Park, then north to
  Sixty-second Street, where he disappeared into a yellowish-brown Deco
  building on the corner. He bought mints at the lobby's newspaper store, and
  checked his appearance in the mirror.
  Carefully cut dyed-black beard, blue eyes (the contact lenses were a good
  touch; an excellent touch), perfect tie from Liberty of London, the natty
  blazer. Just the right look for today's important meeting.
  Then Will took the elevator to the twelfth floor and found the office he
  was looking for: Marshall and Marshall, Attorneys.
  He pushed open the dark oak door. Immediately, he was treated to a wall of
  windows and a view of the teeming avenue below. Impressive and overstated,
  in the American way.
  The company's receptionist was Irish-American from her look, a smiling,
  auburn-haired, alabaster girl, blooming nicely in her mid-twenties. She was
  first class, expensive. Like the firm that employed her. Nice decorative
  touch, Will thought.
   He casually rested the Mark Cross folio on her desk.
  "Good afternoon, sir. May I help you?" she asked. She was more than
  pleasant, he noticed. Not offended by his folio invading her space. Or
  maybe, like a good Irish person, she just didn't show it.
  Will smiled, low-key but seductive, his charm intact. "I'm here to see Mr.
  Arthur Marshall. It's about an inheritance. He's expecting me, I believe."
                   HIDE & SEEK   397

  "Yes, sir." The girl tried not to stare at the very goodlooking
  Englishman standing before her. "Whom should I say is calling?"
   "Palmer Shepherd," said Will.
       CHAPTER 115

 LOOKED AROUND the warm, familiar living room of our house and I couldn't
 help beaming, almost
 giggling out loud. Hooo boy!
  This was the best. This was the most important thing now. The party!
  A dozen of Allies boy and girl friends from kindergarten had come to the
  house for his fifth birthday. No one had declined, and that meant a lot to
  me, and more important, of course, to Allie.
  It was a strictly old-fashioned party, which Jennie and I had meticulously
  planned. Games and silly hats, a birthday cake for the birthday boy, a
  present for every child, and lots of presents for Allie the Wonder Boy.
  It was going perfectly. Barry and Norma had stopped by to help. So far,
  we'd had tons of laughter and fun, one minor collision, not a single tear
  had been shed.
                   HIDE & SEEK   399

  Allie finally came up to me. He beckoned for me to come down to his level,
  his size, his turf.
  I knelt so that we were face to face. As he almost always did, Allie
  twirled my hair around his fingers.
  "Know what?" he said, and his eyes had the most wonderful twinkle. "Well,
  do you?"
  "What? You tell me. The cake is too big for you to eat all by yourself?
  Okay then, share it with your friends."
   Allie laughed. He got all my jokes. I got his too.
  "No, I just want to tell you the very best thing, Mommy. The very best
  thing is that you're here."
  It was the happiest party, the best moment, and suddenly I was crying, and
  I was feeling so good that I could be there at my son's party.
  "I knew somebody was going to cry soon," I told Allie.
  He hugged me, and gave me kisses to make it better. But I was already
  better.
       CHAPTER 116

 HAVING WATCHED MY good mood at the birthday party, Barry the Manipulator
 took the occasion to try and lure me into the city, and up to his studio. I
 surprised him: I told him I'd come. I was ready for a little manipulation.
  When I got to New York, Barry was hyper and excited, the way he usually got
  when he'd just written a good song, or completed an especially good
  business deal.
  "You're scaring me. You're too happy," I told him, but I was laughing.
  Everything seemed good to me now. I was so buoyant, and free. God, was I
  free!
  "I have a scheme," he said to me as we sat down beside his piano. "I've
  been scheming on your behalf."
  My good mood was a match for his. And more. "Thanks, but no thanks."
  Barry completely ignored me. "There's a great concert happening up in
  Rhinebeck, New York, in July."
                   HIDE & SEEK   401

  "Barry, I read the papers. I'm not a hermit. Bedford is less than thirty
  miles from Manhattan. The answer is, regretfully, no. But thank you just
  the same."
  "It's two days of fun in the sun. I know the promoters and they're
  first-class people. They've booked seventeen acts. Eighteen is their magic
  number."
  "I'd love to, but I can't. Do you happen to remember what happened to me
  out in San Francisco?"
  Barry went right on talking. "Tell you who they've got already. Bonnie
  Raitt, k.d. tang, Liz Phair, Emmylou Harris."
  I nodded. Started to laugh. Bit my lip. "Gee, all women. Why did you happen
  to start with the women?"
  "You know, I never even thought of that. You're right though, I did."
  "I don't think I can, Barry. I appreciate the offer, if that's what this
  is."
  Barry wasn't in the mood to show any mercy. That was good though. It meant
  I didn't look as though I needed any.
  "Use it, or lose it," he said. "Unless, of course, you've already lost it."
  "No, I sang in the shower today. I was pretty great. I've still got it.
  Better than ever, actually. Passion, edge, maturity, effervescence."
  Barry played the lead-in to "Loss of Grace" on his piano. I had to admit,
  a shiver went up my spine.
  "I'll think about it," I told him. "But I honestly don't believe that I
  c-cc-can ss-ss-sing in public."
  I winked at him. It was good that I could laugh about the stutter, about
  San Francisco.
402   James Patterson

  Barry nodded, and then he smiled. "I'll take that as a yes."
  He continued to play "I-oss of Grace," and, as he did, I started to sing
  again.
  And I had to admit, like everything else in this second life of mine, it
  felt so good, so right.
  I didn't stutter, or stammer. I sang. And if I do say so myself, sang kind
  of beautifully. With passion, and with a real edge.
  "Your timing is off, your phrasing is a mess," Barry shook his head and
  said. "Welcome home, Maggie."
       CHAPTER 117

 MAGGIE STILL LOVED to walk the streets of New York with the other commoners.
 She was such a woman of the people, wasn't she? Maybe that was why so many
 of them identified with her, loved her songs, loved her.
  She wore a kerchief and dark glasses, but every so often someone recognized
  her anyway. She was always so goddamned gracious. Sign an autograph. Move
  on with that shy little smile of hers. Ingratiating bitch.
  Will walked several blocks behind her. No one bothered him for autographs
  anymore. He didn't exist, did he? The Invisible Man. Deceased and buried,
  right?
  He followed her out of New York and up the Saw Mill early that evening.
  This was all very familiar to him, the road to Bedford. And ruin.
  What wasn't so familiar was the bizarre path his life had taken. How do you
  top off a life that's been incredi-
  404   James Patterson

 bly full, and is suddenly falling apart badly? Where does one go from the
 top?
 How clever he had been up until this point, Will
 thought. That fatal night, he'd shot Palmer and hadn't felt a thing, no
 remorse about Palmer. That was the only way to stop the extortion money his
 greedy brother had been grubbing since Rio.

 He had dressed his brother in his clothes. Then he placed the body on the
 grounds of the estate. He had gone inside and caused a ruckus. He'd lured
 Maggie outside, jumped her, beat her up, and fired the shot that practically
 blew Palmer's face apart. Then he'd disappeared. And just watched the rest.
  Unfortunately, his new life had turned out to be another kind of hell.
  Sometimes he believed that he might be a devil, and he was living in hell.
  Rio was the turning point, he knew. Killing that first girl. Crime and
  punishment had followed him after that night.
  Up the road, he saw Maggie turn into her driveway. He hated that she could
  be happy without him. Strange as it seemed, he had tried to love her. He'd
  wanted her to save him from himself.
  He knew the turning point with Maggie too. He was sure about that. It was
  the first time he'd failed with her in bed. It was while he was Mr. Maggie
  Bradford. He had thought about killing her nearly every day since then.
  She'd failed him, and now she and her little family had to pay the awful
  price. Crime and punishment.
                   HIDE & SEEK   405

  Will went for dinner at a little bar and grill in town. An old fave for the
  locals.
  He thought it was quite something that he could sit there eating a greasy
  burger and fries, and that no one recognized him anymore.
  Well, why the hell should they? He was ancient history, if he'd ever been
  history at all.
   The Black Arrow. That's what he was now.
  He wore a navy blue ballcap without an insignia, a gray sweatshirt, and
  khakis. He fit in okay with the bar crowd watching the Knicks lose badly to
  Indiana.
  Nothing special about him, really. Other than that he was stark raving mad,
  of course. Probably not the only madman sitting at the crowded horseshoe
  bar either. Not the only guy here who was a little homicidal toward his
  wife.
  "The Knicks suck," the young brick seated next to him passed along the sum
  total of his acquired wisdom.
  "Burgers here suck too," Will said, and the other man laughed.
  Soul brothers, are we? Will wanted to continue the conversation in earnest.
  Think so? Want to come with me to my ex-wife's house? I'm going to kill the
  bitch and her two kids. You in? You with me on this?
  "Patrick Ewing really sucks," the other man contributed another choice
  nugget.
  Will nodded sympathetically, and figured it was time to get out of the bar.
  Truth be known, he didn't know the Knicks from the Yankees from the New
  York Jets.
  It was dark outside. He could see that through the bar's front window.
406   James Patterson

  "well, time to head on home to the missus," he told his new mate, then
  stood up at the bar.
  Sure you don't want to tag along, pal? This is going to be a big night in
  Bedford. 1 can promise you that.
       CHAPTER 118

 T WASN'T MUCH of a problem for him to get onto the estate grounds
 undetected. Will parked in one of
  the Lake Club lots, then crossed over through pine woods and a narrow
  meadow.
   No sweat so far. Just the way he'd figured it.
  Walking in the field of high grass made him remember something. He'd ridden
  on horseback there with Allie, when he was only a baby. He'd done it to
  impress Maggie. He knew it would touch her down below her belt. He knew a
  woman's soft spots, knew the buttons to hit. He had carefully pushed all of
  Maggie's, every single one, one by one.
  He had been inside the house on a trial run the week before, so he'd
  already figured how this would go. The cellar door under the original wing
  was open, as it always was.
   He didn't use his flashlight until he was safely inside.
408   James Patterson

 The cellar was a creepy place. The house had been built on bare ground, and
 the original boulders were still down there. There was a wooden stairway up
 from where the freezer was to the kitchen.
  Will used the stairs and was in the house by a little past 11:40. It was a
  school night and everyone had gone to bed. JAM! Jennie, Allie, and Maggie
  . . . Notice, no Will.
  Maggie was still a country girl at heart-early to bed, early to rise. The
  quiet house reminded him of a damn morgue, which seemed appropriate enough.
  In a way, Maggie had given him the idea for tonight. Probably for good
  reasons, she noticed every news story about a husband who ran amok and
  killed one or more family members.
  That was pretty much what Will planned to do tonight. Kill all of them,
  right there in the house. Then disappear for good. The murders would never
  be solved, and that struck him as just the right touch.
  He had a Smith and Wesson, sixteen shots, plus a nasty hunting knife. That
  was more than enough firepower. If need be, he could do the job with his
  bare hands. There was merit to that approach too, the personal touch.
  "Families really suck," Will mumbled as he walked up the thickly carpeted
  stairs to the second floor.
  There wasn't a sound to be heard up there. Maybe this is a trap, he
  thought, but he knew it couldn't be.
  This train was leaving the station. There was no way to stop it now. No way
  on heaven or earth to stop this from happening.
                   HIDE & SEEK   409

  He was breathing real quietly, every breath even, and exactly the same.
  He was feeling confident, real good about this. No guilt. No feelings at
  all.
   It was the right thing to do.
   Ever so slowly, he opened the bedroom door.
  He could see everything in soft, yellow moonlight streaming from the
  window.
   No surprises here. No surprises anywhere tonight.
   "Hello, little buddy," Will said to Allie.
       CHAPTER 119

    HAT THE HELL was that? What was that?
   We had all gone to bed early, and I'd fallen asleep almost immediately.
  I had been dreaming about singing at a huge outdoor concert-and then
  completely losing it onstage. No need to call Dr. Freud in to explain
  that one.
   I awoke and I thought I heard a noise upstairs.
   Was Jennie just going to bed?
  I sat up, looked at the luminous figures on the radio clock: 11:45. I
  didn't think Jennie would be up so late.
  Then I heard another sound. Strange. Well, one of the kids was definitely
  up.
  Then a louder noise, as though a bed were being moved around.
  And finally, what sounded to me like a muffled scream or yell. Was I
  hearing things?
                   HIDE & SEEK   411

  I got up quickly and hurried across the bedroom to the door.
   I listened there for half a second.
   Nothing more.
  Then another muffled sound, this one farther away it seemed. I couldn't
  tell exactly where. Allie? Was Allie up for some reason?
  I hurried outside into the upstairs hallway. The light was out, and I
  switched it back on.
   No one was there. Not Jennie. Not Allie.
  False alarm? Probably so. Things in the country always seemed to go bump in
  the night. Creaky floorboards, loose shutters, branches against a window.
  I decided to check on the kids anyway. Maybe somebody was sick, or maybe
  one of them was having a nightmare. Goodness knows, they'd been through
  enough.
  I gently opened Jennie's bedroom door, the first one, next to mine.
   Jennie was gone!
  I ran as fast as I could down the hallway to the front left bedroom, which
  had a choice view of our horse pastures.
   I yanked open the bedroom door.
   Allie was gone too!
       CHAPTER 120

 TRE'S AN EXPLANATION jor this. Has to be. But I was frightened as could be.
 I ran down the stairway loudly calling out their names, "Jennie! Allie!
 Where are you two? Where are you?"
 There's a simple explanation.
 No one was in the front hall, or the living room either.
  But I could see a light coming from the den. Okay, the kids were in the
  den.
   "Jennie? . . . Allie? . . . Is something the matter?"
  I ran toward the den, clipping a pile of books on the edge of an old
  hallway table. The books fell loudly to the floor.
  I turned the corner into the den, and I stopped. Everything stopped. All
  time, all forward progress, all sense of fairness and goodness in the
  universe.
   Stopped.
                   HIDE & SEEK   413

 Will was standing there with the kids.
  I stared at the black hair and beard, but I knew it was definitely Will.
  He had a gun, and he had Jennie and Allie, and the gun was loosely pointed
  at them.
  "Hello, Maggie. Long time, huh?" Cool as could be. Psychopathic as they
  come. "Good to see ya."
   "Are you two all right?" I asked the kids.
  "We're okay, Mom," Jennie said. "We're okay. We're fine."
  "They're okay," Will said. "What's the big problem? Haven't you heard of
  visitation rights?"
  I walked further into the room. My heart wouldn't stop pounding.
   Will was there. Will was alive.
  "I hate you!" I said. I couldn't stop myself from saying it.
  "Hate you too, darlin'. Hate you more. That's why I'm here," Will said and
  smiled. "Been hating you and hating you, for a long, long time."
  I stopped myself and stared at him. I tried to be calm. "Why did you dare
  come here, Will? After all that's happened."
  "Oh, lots of neat reasons. First of all, just to see the confusion in your
  eyes, the fear. I love that look. Makes me feel good all over."
  "That's because you're a coward." I told him what I really thought.
  "No doubt. I think you're right. That's exactly why I'm here. I'm afraid to
  go on living the way I am. That's it."
414   James Patterson

  "You wouldn't hurt them. Why would you hurt them?" I asked him.
  Will shrugged. "Because they're yours. Because you fucked me up even worse
  than I was. I could function before you. Now, Maggie-shut up. I mean
  it-shut the hell up." He pointed the gun at Allie. My little boy was trying
  not to cry but he was starting to shake. There was nothing I could do.
  No one spoke, and Will smiled at the silence. He nodded his approval.
  Controlling son of a bitch.
  "Okay now, here's what we're going to do," he finally said. "You all lie on
  the floor. Facedown. Keep very still. Everybody on the floor. Let's play a
  game, Allie."
  "Says who?" Jennie suddenly turned and shouted at him. "What, so you can
  kill us all a lot easier? That's what you're here for, isn't it? You punk!
  You piece of crap."
  "Jennie," I tried to quiet her. Then I realized what she was doing, at
  least I thought I did, hoped I did, prayed I did.
  "We're not doing anything you say!" I yelled at Will, just as Jennie had.
  "We all hate your guts!"
   "We hate you!" Jennie screamed at him.
   "We hate you!" yelled Allie in his tiny voice.
  Jennie suddenly flew into Will's side, and I reached for the gun. I pulled
  on his wrist as hard as I could. Both hands! The strength of a madwoman!
  At the same time, I brought up my knee-as hard as I could-into Will's
  groin.
  Will woofed out air. He groaned. The gun actually came free, and I had it.
                   HIDE & SEEK   415

 1 had the gun in my hand. Now what? Now what?
  I backed away from Will as quickly as I could. A lot of fast steps in a
  hurry.
   So did Jennie and Allie.
  "C'mon, c'mon. Get out of here now. Jennie, call the police. Call
  nine-one-one. Hurry. Please. Go!" I told the two of them.
  Will looked at me and seemed confused, as if this wasn't in his playbook.
  Then he smiled again, the smile I remembered so well, the one that had
  always been so effective for him. Killer smile, right.
  "Isn't this something," he said with a heavy sigh. "Not exactly the way I
  planned it. But. A good scorer, a striker, has to improvise. I know you
  never wanted to follow soccer, Maggie, but for a great striker, there's no
  team, there's no win or lose, there's nothing but the goal."
   "Will," I said to him, "now you shut up."
  "Do you know what my goal was tonight, Maggie? Do you really get it?"
  "Yes, I do. To kill us. Jennie, please go. Allie, go! I mean it. Now! Call
  the police, Jennie."
  "Mom," Jennie said, and she was talking very softly, very slowly, "you come
  with us. Back out of the door with the gun. Come with us."
  "Do you know the rest of my goal, Maggie?" Will continued to speak to me.
  "I think I have this figured out."
  I thought I did too. I thought I understood him real well.
   "To kill us, and then to kill yourself," I said.
416   James Patterson

  Will slowly clapped his hands together. Applause from the great man.
  "Mom, please come with us," Jennie begged. "Please."
   Then Will started to walk right toward me.
  "Can you do it, Maggie?" he said. His eyes were pinned onto mine now.
   "I can do what I have to do," I said.
   "Mom, please."
  "Can you really do it, Maggie? Can you start this nightmare all over again?
  Or would you rather die? Can you pull the trigger?"
   Will kept walking.
   The striker.
  Advancing on goal, just as he'd said. No team concept. Just Will-the loner.
  The ultimate loser.
  There was no good answer to his question. There was no easy way out of
  this.
   But maybe there was a way. Maybe there was.
  Will kept walking toward me. He held eye contact. Then he smiled again.
   1 fired!
   "Mom! Mom!"
  He grabbed his leg, and nearly went over, nearly went down.
  "Oooohh!" he moaned. "Jesus Christ, Maggie. You're quite the tiger, quite
  the defender."
  Will started to move forward again. It was as though he hadn't even been
  hit.
   The striker.
   The attacker.
                   HIDE & SEEK   417

 The best in the world at this.
 Unstoppable once he started toward his goal.

 To murder me and the kids, right here in our house.
  Will took a knife from his shirt. Big knife, hunting knife. He raised it
  toward me. He lunged.
   I fired a second time.
EPILOGUE
Night Songs
                                     
       CHAPTER 121

 SOUTHERN CONNECTICUT IN early November. Four and a half months after the
 shooting. Will and I were finally off the front pages of most newspapers and
 magazines.
 There was just one more story to tell.
  It was a bright and crisp fall afternoon-high school football weather. Only
  to me, peering out the tinted Plexiglas windows of my car, it seemed a
  gloomy day, a day meant for unfinished business.
  Norma had come along with me, but I drove. I needed to be in control. I
  thought that I was. We'd see about that soon enough.
   I was trying to be brave, to survive this final test.
  I hadn't done anything wrong-not ever. I'd just protected what was
  important, my family. Sure, I had made mistakes, but who doesn't. With
  Will, I'd been a victim
422   James Patterson

 for his obsessions. He had lied so brilliantly, right from the start of our
 relationship.
  Norma and I talked everything through again during the drive from Bedford.
  Finally, I pulled up at the Institute for Living, a Federal-style building
  in the outskirts of New Haven that looked like a cross between a college
  administration building and a prison. It was neither, nothing so benign. It
  was a mental hospital, supposedly

 one of the best.
  Norma and I hurried across a poplar- and maplelined parking area, then into
  the vestibule, where we approached a receptionist dressed in nurse's white.
  "We're here to see Mr. Shepherd," I told her, and if she recognized me she
  didn't show it. I appreciated that.
  "I'll have someone take you to his room," is all she said. An aide
  eventually materialized to escort us.
  Outside Will's room, I stopped. "Can you wait here?" I said to Norma. "I
  think I want to see him alone."
  "You're sure, Maggie? You don't have to punish yourself, honey."
 "1'm sure. I'm not afraid of him anymore." Not too

 much anyway.
  "Good for you then. I'll be the short, dumpy broad waiting outside. Maybe
  some guy in here is nuts enough to fall for me."
  The aide unlocked the door and I entered. l entered. It was a plain enough
  room: clean, a made bed, desk, desk chair, easy chair, and standing lamp
  its only furniture. There was a bookcase built into the far wall holding a
  few new paperbacks, obviously unread, and a small
                   HIDE & SEEK   423

 sink for washing. It reminded me of prison, only it was nicer.
  Will was standing by the window. There was no sign that he ever sat down.
  He was looking at me, looking through me, I guess I should say.
  I'm not afraid anymore. I can do this. Whatever is necessary, I told
  myself.
  If it was possible, Will was even more handsome than when I had first met
  him in London. His hair was its natural blond, long and full. It caught the
  afternoon sun through the heavily screened window.
   "Hello, Will."
   Nothing.
  His face was clean shaven and pale pink; his body seemed to have the same
  lithe grace, even standing still, that it always had.
   "It's Maggie, Will."
  He looks like a grown-up little boy, I thought, remembering Will at the
  very first Lake Club party, at our wedding, confessing his sorrow and pain,
  and all his lies.
  I had loved him-because he could make himself seem so lovable. He was a
  very good actor after all. He had fooled so many people-half the world. He
  had worked hard to fool me.
  He made a strange sound, a high-pitched wail that reverberated in the
  hospital room. The second shot I'd fired at the estate had struck his head,
  caromed off bone, but done severe damage anyway.
  "Mmahhlah . . . mmahhlah," he said to me. He seemed insistent; but I didn't
  understand.
424   James Patterson

 What was he trying to say?
  Was it Maggie? Mother? Was it Mama? What was it?
  I sat in a hard wooden chair directly across from him. I forced myself to
  look at his face.

 I'm sorry I did this to you, Will. But I'm not guilty about it. 1 sleep at
 night--1 sleep just fine. You did this to yourself.
  I thought of the murder he'd committed in Bedford Hills; of his terrifying
  betrayal of me; of what he had done to Jennie and Allie, and what he'd
  planned to do to us all.
  But I couldn't hate him. Not now. Not the way he was.
  "Will, can you hear me? Do you understand what I'm saying?"
  The dead stare didn't change. He couldn't understand, could he? He had gone
  to his own world forever.
  It's so sad, I thought, as I watched him that afternoon at the hospital.
  You're still young. You look so young, so full of promise. But you won't
  hurt me ever again. You won't hurt my children. I'm not scared of you,
  Will.
  A little past five o'clock, the aide returned. He was jangling his keys so
  I'd hear him come up on us. "Visiting hours are over."
   "Thank you. I'll just be another minute. Please?"
  I stood and walked to the window where Will was still standing. A cloak of
  solemn gray had already replaced the sunlight outside
                   HIDE & SEEK   425

  I turned to Will. "I feel so sorry for you," I said, "but I can't forgive
  you either."
  I wanted him to say something. A final few words to remember him by. To
  explain why he had wanted to kill me. Why he had hurt us. Who was Will
  Shepherd, really? Did anyone know?
   "Okay. Good-bye, Will. I'm sorry for you."
  I gathered myself together, and started to leave the room. I turned my back
  on Will. I wasn't afraid of him anymore.
CHAPTER 122

 SUDDENLY, WILL SCREAMED with a tremendous force that echoed through the
 hospital. I whirled around toward him.
 He shrieked again, his body rocking violently.
  Aides came running down the hallway. A burly male nurse appeared with a
  plastic-sheathed needle clasped in his fist. I sensed that this had
  happened before.
   "Mmahhlah!" Will screamed.
  I thought that he might be having a stroke. Certainly this was some kind of
  fit.
  "Mmahhlah. Mmahhlah," he continued to shout. His face and neck were bright
  red. His veins stood out against his skin.
  I stared at Will in horror. Maggie? Mother? What in God's name was he
  trying to tell me?
   In his eyes, there wasn't the slightest comprehension
                   HIDE & SEEK   427

 or recognition. He was pushed down firmly onto the bed, and I felt his legs
 shrivel.

 The Blond Arrow, shriveling.
  I had to get out of there. I nearly ran from the room. There was nothing I
  could do for him anymore. Norma was waiting for me at the end of the
  corridor.
  "Maggie! My God! What was that? What the hell happened in there? You okay?"
  I put my arms around her and held Norma tightly, as though to blot out
  those screams. Finally, the two of us walked out of the building and onto
  the black-topped parking area, the trees now ghostly silhouettes.
  Halfway across the parking lot I turned. I felt as though someone had just
  stepped out of a grave.
  I had the powerful intuition that something was chasing after me. Mmahhlah
  . . . Mmahhlah was coming fast, right behind me.
   Those lifeless, haunting eyes . . .
  But there was no one looking out from Will's hospital window. There was no
  one when I looked back.
       CHAPTER 123

 N HIS BARREN, insular hospital room Will screamed and screamed. Screamed and
 screamed. Until his throat was raw and felt as though it had splinters in
 it. Still, he continued to scream.
  As the night-shift aides tried to feed him his dinner, changed him, and put
  him to bed, he continued to scream. His strength, his stamina, were amazing
  to all of them. He was still young, and very athletic, and so powerfully
  strong.
  "Mmahhlah! Mmahhlah! Mmahhlah!" He cried over and over.
   "Mmahhlah! Mmahhlah! Mmahhlah!
   "MMAHHLAH!"
  He had seen Maggie today. He'd been aware of everything. He'd wanted to
  speak to her, but he couldn't. He couldn't. Mmahhlah was all he could get
  out.

 Why didn't she understand him? Why didn't anyone?
                   HIDE & SEEK   429

 "Mmahhlah."
 I'm alive! I'm alive! Please don't leave me like this! I'm trapped inside
 this body. Can't you see that? Won't you help me? "Mmahhlah! "Mmahhlah!"
 I'm alive!

  I was halfway home to Bedford when it hit me, and I understood what Will
  had been trying to say to me at the hospital. He was badly slurring his
  words, jumbling them together. Mmahhlah was I'm alive. He could think,
  and understand. He just couldn't mouth the words clearly. It took my
  breath away. But I never went to see him again. I never will.
