William Collins Sons and 	Co Ltd
London - Glasgow  Sydney  Auckland
Toronto  Johannesburg

ISBN 0 00 232136 X

First published 1923
This reprint 1987

Copyright Agatha Christie 1923
All rights reserved

Made and Printed in Great Britain
by William Collins Sons and Co Ltd, Glasgow


CHAPTER i

A FELLOW-TRAVELLER

I BELIEVE that a well-known anecdote exists to the effect
that a young writer, determined to make the commencement
of his story forcible and original enough to catch and
rivet the attention of the most blase of editors, penned the
Tollowing sentence:
'" Hell!" said the Duchess.'
Strangely enough, this tale of mine opens in much the
same fashion. Only the lady who gave utterance to the exclamation
was not a duchess.
It was a day in early June. I had been transacting some
business in Paris and was returning by the morning service
to London, where I was still sharing rooms with my old
t쩳end, the Belgian ex-detective, Hercule Poirot.
The Calais express was singularly empty- in fact, my own
compartment held only one other traveller. I had made a
somewhat hurried departure from the hotel and was busy
assuring myself that I had duly collected all my traps, when
the train started. Up till then I had hardly noticed my companion,
but I was now violently recalled to the fact of her
existence. Jumping up from her seat, she let down the window
and stuck her head out, withdrawing it a moment later
with the brief and forcible ejaculation 'Helll'
Now I am old-fashioned. A woman, I consider, should
be womanly. I have no patience with the modern neurotic
girl who jazzes from morning till night, smokes like a
chimney, and uses language which would make a Billingsgate
fishwoman blush!
I looked up, frowning slightly, into a pretty, impudent
face, surmounted by a rakish little red hat. A thick cluster of


black curls hid each ear. I judged that she was little more
than seventeen, but her face was covered with powder, and
her lips were quite impossibly scarlet.

Nothing abashed, she returned my glance, and executed
an expressive grimace.

'Dear me, we've shocked the kind gentleman!' she ob-served
to an imaginary audience. 'I apologize for my lan-guage!
Most unladylike, and all that,'but, oh, Lord, there's

reason enough for it! Do you know I've lost my only sister?'
'Really?' I said politely. 'How unfortunate.'

'He disapproves? remarked the lady. 'He disapproves
utterly - of me, and my sister- which last is unfair, because
he hasn't seen her!'

I opened my mouth, but she forestalled me.

' Say no morel Nobody loves me! I shall go into the gar-den
and eat worms! Boohoo. I am crushed!'

She buried herself behind a large comic French paper. In
a minute or two' I saw her eyes stealthily peeping at me over
de top. In spite of myself I could not help smiling, and in a
minute she had tossed the paper aside, and had burst into a
merry peal of laughter.

' I knew you weren't such a mutt as you looked,' she cried.

Her laughter was so infectious that I could not help join-ing
in, though I hardly cared for the word' mutt'.

'Therel Now we're friends!' declared the minx. 'Say

you're sorry about my sister--'
'I am desolated!'
'That's a good boy!'

'Let me finish. I was going to add that, although I am
desolated, I can manage to put up with her absence very
well.' I made a little bow.

But this most unaccountable of damsels frowned and
shook her head.

'Cut it out. I prefer the "dignified disapproval" stunt.
Oh, your facel "Not one of us", it said. And you were right

6


there- though, mind yotb it's pretty hard to tell nowadays.
It's not everyone who can distinguish between a demi and a
duchess. There now, I believe I've shocked you again!
You've been dug out of the backwoods, you have. Not that
I mind that. We could do with' a few more of your sort. I

just hate a fellow who gets fresh. It makes me mad.'

She shook her head vigorously.

'What are you like when you're mad?' I inquired with a
smile.

'A regular little devil! Don't care what I say, or what I do,
either! I nearly did a chap in once. Yes, really. He'd have
deserved it' too.'

' Well,' I begged,' don't get mad with me.'

'I shan't. I like you - did the first moment I set eyes on
you. But you looked so disapproving that I never thought
we should make friends.'

' Well, we have. Tell me something about yourself.'

'I'm an actress. No - not the kind you're thinking of.

I've been on the boards since I was a kid of six- tumbling.'
'I beg your pardon,' I said, puzzled.
'Haven't you ever seen child acrobats?'
'Oh, I understand!'

'I'm American born, but I've spent most of my life in

England. We've got ia new show now --'

'We?'

'My sister and I. Sort of song and dance, and a bit of pat-ter,
and a dash of the old business thrown in. It's quite a new
idea, and it hits them every time. There's going to be money
in

My new acquaintance leaned forward, and discoursed .
volubly, a great many of her terms being quite unintelligible
to me. Yet I found myself evincing an increasing interest in
her. She seemed such a curious mixture of child and woman.
Though perfectly wordly-wise, and able, as she expressed it,
to take care of'herse there was yet something curiously


7


ingenuous in her single-minded attitude towards life, and her
wholehearted determination to 'make good:

We passed through Amiens. The name awakened many
memories. My companion seemed to have an intuitive

knowledge of what was in my mind.
'Thinking of the War?'
I nodded.

'You were through it, I suppose?'

'Pretty well I was wounded once, and after the Somme
they invalided me out altogether. I'm a sort of private

secretary now to an MP.'

'My! That's brainy!'

'No, it isn't. There's really awfully little to do. Usually
a couple of hours every day sees me through. It's dull work
too. In fact, I don't know what I should do if I hadn't got
something to fall back upon.'

'Don't say you collect bugs!'

'No. I share rooms with a very interesting man. He's a
Belgian - an ex-detective. He's set up as a private detective
in London, and he's doing extraordinarily well He's really a
very marvellous little man. Time and again he has proved to
be right where the official police have failed.'

My companion listened with widening eyes.

'Isn't that interesting, now? I just adore crime. I go to all
the mysteries on the movies. And when there's a murder on
I just devour the papers.'

'Do you remember the Styles Case?' I asked.

'Let me see, was that the old hdy who was poisoned?

Somewhere down in Essex?'

I nodded.

'That was Poirot's first big case. Undoubtedly, but for
him the murderer would have escaped scot-free. It was a
most wonderful bit of detective work.'

Warming to my subject, I ran over the heads of the affair,
working up to the triumphant and unexpected ddnouement.

8


The girl listened spellbound. In fact, we were so absorbed
that the train drew into Calais statiofi before we realized it.
I secured a couple of porters, and we alighted on the platform.
My companion held out her hand.
'Goodbye, and I'll mind my language better in future.'
'Oh, but surely you'll let me look after you on the boat?'
'Mayn't be on the boat. I've got to see whether that sister
of mine got aboard after all anywhere. But thanks, all the
same.'
'Oh, but we're going to meet agaln, surely? Aren't you
even going to tell me your name.' I cried as she turned
away.
She looked over her shoulder.
'Cinderella,' she said, and laughed.
But little did I think when and how I should see Cinderella
agaim


CHAPTER

AN APPEAL FOR HELP

IT was five minutes past nine when I entered our joint
sitting-room for breakfast on the following morning. My
friend Poirot, exact to the minute as usual, was just tapping
the shell of his second egg.
He beamed upon me as I entered.
'You have slept well, yes? You have recovered from the
crossing so terrible? It is a marvel, almost you are exact this
morning. Pardon, but your tie is not symmetrical. Permit
that I rearrange him.'
Elsewhere, i have described Hercule Poirot. An extraordinary
little man! Height, five feet four inches, egg-shaped
head carried a little to one side, eyes that shone green when
he was excited, stiff military moustache, air of dig,ity immense!
He was neat and dandified in appearance. For neatness
of any kind he had an absolute passion. To see an ornament
set crookedly, or a speck of dust, or a slight disarray in
one's attire, was torture to the little man until l,-e could ease
his feelings by remedying the matter.' Order' and' Method'
were his gods. He had a certain disdain for tangible evidence,
such as footprints and cigarette ash, and would maintain thag
taken by themselves, they would never enable a detective to
solve a problem. Then he would tap his egg-shaped iead
with abstrd complacency, and remark with great satisfaction:
'The true work, it is done from within. T,e little grey
cells - remember always the htfle grey cells, mon am'
I slipped into my seat, and remarked idly, in answer to
Poirot's greeting, that an hour's sea passage from Calais to
Dover could hardly be dignified by the epiet 'terrible'.
'Anything interesting come by the post?' I asked.

IO


Poirot shook his head with a dissatisfied air.
'I have not yet examined my letters, but nothing of interest
arrives nowadays. The great criminals, the criminals
of method, they do not exist.'
He shook his head despondently, and I roared with
laughter.
'Cheer up, Poirot, the luck will change. Open your letters.
For all you know, there may be a great case looming on
the horizon.'
Poirot smiled, and taking up the neat little letter opener
with which he opened his correspondence he slit the tops of
the several envelopes that lay by his plate.
'A bill. Another bill. It is that I grow extravagant in my
old age. Aha! a note from Japp.'
'Yes?' I pricked up my ears. The Scotland Yard Inspector
had more than once introduced us to an interesting case.
'He merely thanks me (in his fashion) for a little point in
the Aberystwyth Case on which I was able to set him right.
I am delighted to have been of service to him.'
Poirot continued to read his correspondence placidly.
'A suggestion that I should give a lecture to our local Boy
Scouts. The Countess of Forfanock will be obliged if I will
call and see her. Another lap-dog without doubt! And now
for the last. Ah --'
I looked up, quick to notice the change of tone. Poirot
was reading attentively. In a minute he tossed the sheet over
to me.
'This is out of the ordinary, mon evrd. Read for yourself.'
The letter was written on a foreign type of paper, in a
bold characteristic hand:
Vn.I., G.,.v
MERLINVT.L.SUR-MER
FRNC.
DSR SIR,mi am in need of the services of a detective
and for reasons which I will give you hter, do not wish
II


to call n the official police. I have heard of you from
several quarters, and all reports go to show that you are
not only a man of decided ability, but one who also knows
how to be discreet. I do not wish to trust details to the
post, but, on account ora secret I poSSess, I go in daily fear
of my life. I am convinced that the danger is imminent,
and therefbre I beg that you will lose no time in crossing
to France. I will send a car to meet you at Calais, if you
will wire me when you are arriving. I shall be obliged if
you will drop all cases you have on hand, and devote
yourself solely to my interests. I am prepared to pay any
compensation necessary. I shall probably need your ser-vices
for a considerable period of time, as it may be neces-sary
for you to go out to Santiag% where I spent several
years of my life. I shall be content for you to name your
own fee.

Assuring you once more that the matter is urgent.

Yours faithfully,

P. T. 1DdENAULD.


Below the signature was a hastily scrawled line, almost
illegible:

'For God's sake, come!'

I handed the letter back with quickened pulses.

'.At last!' I said."Here is something disfincfiy out of ,..he
ordinary.'

'Yes, indeed,' said Poirot meditatively.

'You will go of course,' I continued.

Poirot nodded. He was thinking deeply. Finally he seemed
to make up his mind, and glanced up at the clock. His face
was very grave.

'See you, my' friend, there is no time to lose. The Conti-nental
express leaves Victoria at x o'clock. Do not agitate
yourself. There is plenty of time. We can allow ten minutes
for discussion. You accompany meri'est-ce


I2


' Well
'You told me yourself that your employer needed you
not for the next few weeks.'
'Oh, that's all fight. But this Mr Renauld hints strongly
dat his business is private.'
'Ta- ta - ta - ][ will manage M. ltenauld. By the way,
seem to know the name?'
'There's a well-known South American millionaire fellow.
His name's Renauld. I don't know whether it could be the same.'
'But without doubt. That explains the mention of Santiago.
Santiago is in Chile. and Chile it is in South Americal
Ah; but we progress finelyl You remarked the postscript?
How did it strike you?'
I considered.
' Clearly he wrote the letter keeping himself well in hand,
but at the end his sell-control snapped and on the impulse of
the moment, he scrawled those four desperate words.'
But my friend shook his head energetically.
' You are in error. See .you not that while the ink of the
signature is nearly black, that of the postscript is quite
pale?'
'Well?' I said, puzzled.
'Mort Dieu, mort ami, but use your little grey cells? Is it
not obvious? Mr Benauld wrote his letter. Without blotting
it, he re-read it carefully. Then, not on impulse, but deliberately,
he added those last words, and blotted the sheet.'
' But why?'
'Parbleu! so that it should produce the effect upon me
that it has upon you.'
' What ?'
'.$la/. od- to make sttre of my corning! He re-read the
letter and was dissatisfied. It was not strong enough!'
He paused, and then added softly, his eyes shining with
tlaat green Might that always betokened inward excitement:


'And so, mon ami, since that postscript was added, not on
impulse, but soberly, in cold blood, the urgency is very
great, and we must reach him as soon as possible.'

' Merlinville,' I murmured thoughtfully. 'I've heard of it,
I think.'

Poirot nodded.

'It is a quiet little place- but chic! It lies about midway
between Boulogne and Calais. Mr RenaUld has a house in
England, I suppose?'

'Yes, in Rutland Gate, as far as I remember. Also a big
place in the country, somewhere in Hertfordshire. But I
really know very little about him, he doesn't do much in a
social way. I believe he has large South American interests in
the City, and has spent most of his life out in Chile and the
Argentine.'

'Well, we shall hear all details from the man himself.
Come, let us pack. A small suit-case each, and then a taxi to
Victoria.'

Eleven o'clock saw our departure from Victoria on our
way to Dover. Before starting Poirot had dispatched a
telegram to Mr Renauld giving the time of our arrival at
CalMs.

On the boat, I knew better than to disturb my friend's
solitude. The weather was gorgeous, and the sea as smooth
as the proverbial mill-pond so I was hardly surprised when
a smiling Poirot joined me on disembarking at Calais. A dis-appointment
was in store for us, as no car had been sent to
meet us, but Poirot put this down to his telegram having
been delayed in transit.

' We will hire a car,' he smd cheerfully. And a few minutes
later saw us creaking and iolting along, in the most ram-shackle
of automobiles that ever plied for hire, in the direc-tion
of Merlinville.

My spirits were at their highest, but my little friend was
observing me gravely.

x4


'You are what the Scotch people call "fey", Hastings. It
presages disaster.'
'Nonsense. At any rate, you do not share my feelings.'
'No, but I am afraid.'
'Afraid of what?'
'I do not know. But I have a premonition- a je ne .rals
quoit'
He spoke so gravely that I was imprsed in spite of myself.
'I have a feeling,' he said slowly, 'that this is going to be
a big affair- a long, troublesome problem that will not be
easy to work out.'
I would have questioned him further, but we were just
coming into the little town of Merlinville, and we slowed up
to inquire the way to the Villa Genevieve.
'Straight on, monsieur, through the town. The Villa
Genevieve is about half a mile the other side. You cannot
miss it. A big Villa, overlooking the sea.'
We thanked our informant, and drove on, leaving the
town behind. A fork in the road brought us to a second halt.
A peasant was trudging towards us, and we waited for him to
come up to us in order to ask the way again. There was a
tiny Villa standing right by the road, but it was too small and
dilapidated to be the one we wanted. As we waited, the gate
of it swung open and a girl came out.
The peasant was passing us now, and the driver leaned
forward from his seat and asked for direction.
'The Villa Genevieve? Just a few stps up this road to the
right, monsieur. You could see it if it were not for the
curve.'
The chauffeur thanked him, and started the car again. My
eyes were fascinated by the girl who still stood, with one
hand on the gate, watching us. I am an admirer of beauty,
and here was one whom nobody could have passed without
remark. Very tall, with the proportions ora young goddess,


her uncovered golden head gleaming in the sunlight, I swore
to myself that she was one of the most beautiful girls I had
ever seen. As we swung up the rough road, I turned my
head to look after her.

' By ]ove Poirot,' I exclaimed, 'did you see that young
goddess?'

Poirot raised his eyebrows.

''a commence? he murmured. 'Already you have seen
a god&ss!'

'But, hmag it all, wasn't she?'
'Possibly, I did not remark the fact.'
'Surely you noticed her?'

'Mon am/, two people rarely see the same thing. You, for

instance, saw a goddess. I --' He hesitated.

'Yes?'

'I saw only a girl with anxious eyes,' said Poirot gravely.
But at that moment we drew up at a big green gate, and,
simultaneously, we both uttered an exclamation. Before it
stood an imposing sergent & ille. He held.up his hand to
bar our way.

'You cannot pass, messieurs.'

'But we wish to see Mr BenauId,' I cried. 'We have an

appointmmt. This is his Villa, isn't it?'
'Yes, monsieur, but---'
Poirot leaned forward.
'But what?'

'Morsieur Renauld was murdered this morning.'


CHAPTER


AT THE VILLA GENEVIEVE


IN a moment Poirot had leapt from the car, his eyes blazing
with excitement.

' What is that you say? Murdered ? When ? How?'

The sergent de ville drew himself up.

'I cannot answer any questions, monsieur.'

' True. I comprehend.' Poirot reflected for a minute.' The

Commissary of Police, he is without doubt within ?'

'Yes, monsieur.'

Poirot took out a card, and scribbled a few words on it.

' Voil& I Will you have the goodness to see that this card
is sent in to the commissary at once?'

The man took it and, turning his head over his shoulder,
whistled. In a few seconds a comrade joined him, and was
handed Poirot's message. There was a wait of some minutes,
and then a short, stout man with a huge moustache came
bustling down to the gate. The sergent de viile saluted and
stood aside.

'My dear Monsieur Poirot,' cried the newcomer, 'I am

delighted to see you. Your arrival is most opportune.'
Poirot's face had lighted up.

'Monsieur Bex! This is indeed a pleasure.' Ha turned to
me. 'This is an English friend of mine, Captain Hastings-onsieur
Lucien Bex.'

The commissary and I bowed to each other ceremoni-ously,
then M. Bex turned once more to Poirot.

'Mon vieux, I have not seen you since x9o9, that time in
Ostend. You have information to give which may assist us?'

' Possibly you know it already. You were aware that I had
been sent for?'


'No. By whom?'

'The dead man. It seems that he knew an attempt was go-ing
to be made on his life. Unfortunately he sent for me too
late.'

'Sacr tonnerre/' ejacuhted the Frenchman. 'So he fore-saw
his own murder. That upsets our theories considerably!
But come inside.'

He held the gate open, and we commenced walking to.
wards the house. M. Bex continued to talk:

'The examining magistrate, Monsieur Hautet, must hear
of this at once. He has just finished examining the scene of
the crime and is about to begin his interrogations.'

'When was the crime committed?' asked Poirot.

'The body was discovered this morning about nine
o'clock. Madame Renauld's evidence and that of the doctors
goes to show that death must have occurred about 2 am.
But enter, I pray of you.'

We had arrived at the steps which led up to the front door
of the Villa. In the hall another ergene de villwas siting.
He rose at sight of the commissary.

'Where is Monsieur Hautet now?' inquired the latter.
'In the. ,a/n, monsieur.'

IVL Bex opened a door to the left of the hall, and we passed
in. M. Hautet and his clerk were sitting at a big round table.
They looked up as we entered. The commissary introduced
us, and plained our presence.

M. Hautet, the ]uge d'Instruction, was a tall gaunt man,
with piercing dark eyes, and a neatly cut grey beard, which
he had a habit of caressing as he talked. Standing by the
mantelpiece was an elderly man, with slightly stooping
shoulders, who was introduced to us as Dr Durand.

'Most extraordinary,' remarked M. Hautet as the eom-missary
finished speaking. 'You have the letter here, mon-sieur?'

Poirot handed it to him, and the magistrate read it.


'H'm! He speaks of a secret. What a pity he was not
more explicit. We are much indebted to you, Monsieur
Poirot. I hope you will do us the honour of assisting
us in our investigations. Or are you obliged to return to
London?'

'Monsieur le juge, I propose to remain. I did not arrive in
time to prevent my client's deatia, but I feel myself bound in

honour to discover the assassin.'

The magistrate bowed.

'These sentiments do you honour. Also, without doubt,
Madame Renauld will wish to retain your services. We are
expecting M. Giraud from the Sfiret in Paris any moment,
and I am sure that you and he will be able to give each other
mutual assistance in your investigations. In the meantime, I
hope that you will do me the honour to be present at my
interrogations, and I need hardly say that if there is any
assistance you require it is at your disposal.'

'I thank you, monsieur. You will comprehend that at
present I am completely in the dark. I know nothing what-ever.'

M. I-Iautet nodded to the eommissm'y, and t.he latter took
up the tale:

'This morning, the old servant Frangoise, on descending
to start her work, found the front door ajar. Feeling a mo-mentary
alarm as to burglars, she looked into the dining-room,
but seeing the silver was safe she thought no more
about it, concluding that her master had, without doubt,
risen early, and gone for a stroll.'

' Pardon, monsieur, for interrupting, but was that a com-mon
practice of his?'

' No, it was not, but old Fran.oise has the common idea as
regards the English- that they are mad, and liable to do the
most unaccountable things at any moment! Going to call
her mistress as usual, a young maid, L{onie, was horrified
to discover her gagged and bound, and almost at the same


I9


her uncovered golden head gleaming in the sunlight, I swore
to myself that she was one of the most beautiful girls I had
ever seen. As we swung up the rough road, I mined my
head to look after her.

'By Jove, Poirot,' I exclaimed, 'did you see that young
goddess?'

Poirot raLd his eyebrows.

''a commence/' he murmured. 'Already you have seen
a goddess!'

'But, hang it all, wasn't she?'

' Possibly, I did not remark the fact.'

'Surely you noticed her?'

'Moa ami, two people rarely see the same thing. You, for

instance, saw a goddess. I --' He hesitated.

,Ires?'

'I saw only a girl with anxious eyes,' said Poirot gravely.
But at that moment we drew up at a big green gate, and,
simultaneously, we both uttered an exclamation. Before it
stood an imposing sergent & ille. He held.up his hand to
bar our way.

'You cannot pass, messieurs.'

'But we wish to see Mr Benauld,' I cried. 'We have an

appointment. This is his Villa, isn't it?'
'Yes, monsieur, but--'
Poirot leaned forward.
'But what?'

'Monsieur Renauld was murdered this morning.'


i6


(IAPTER S

AT THE VILLA GENEVIEVE

IN a moment Poirot had leapt from the ca% his eyes blazing
with excitement.
' nat is that you say? Murdered? Vrhen ? How?'
The sergent de ville drew himself up.
'I cannot answer any questions, monsieur.'
' True. I comprehend.' Poirot reflected for a minute.' The
Commissary of Police, he is without doubt within ?'
'Yes, monsieur.'
Poirot took out a card, and scribbled a few words on it.
' F'o//& I Will you have the goodness to see that this card
is sent in to the commissary at once?'
The man took it and, turning his head over his shoulder,
whistled. In a few seconds a comrade joined him, and was
handed Poirot's message. There was a wait of some minutes,
and then a shorts stout man with a huge moustache came
busting down to the gate. The sergent de viile saluted and
stood aside.
'My dear Monsieur Poiro%' cried the newcomer, 'I am
delighted to see you. Your arrival is most opportune.'
Poirot's face had lighted up.
'Monsieur Bex! This is indeed a pleasure.' H turned to
me. 'This is an English friend of mine, Captain Hastingsonsieur
Lucien Bex.'
The commissary and I bowed to each other ceremoniously,
then M. Bex turned once more to Poirot.
'Mon /eux, I have not seen you since x9o9, that time in
Ostend. You have information to give which may assist us?'
' Possibly you know it already. You were aware that I had
been sent for?'

17


'No. By whom?'
'The dead man. It seems that he knew an attempt was go-lng
to be made on his life. Unfortunately he sent for me too
late.'
'Sacri tourre.t' e]acuhted the Frenchman. 'So he foresaw
his own murder. That upsets our theories considerably!
But come inside.'
He held the gate open, and we commenced walking towards
the house. I'll Bex continued to talk:
'The examining magistrate, Monsieur Hautet, must hear
of this at once. He has just finished examining the scene of
the crime and is about to begin his interrogations.'
'When was the crime committed?' asked Poirot.
'The body was discovered this morning about nine
o'clock. Madame Renauld's evidence and that of the doctors
goes to show that death must have occurred about 2 am.
But enter, I pray of you.'
We had arrived at the steps which led up to the front door
of the Vilh. In the hall another ergent d, rill, was sitting.
He rose at sight of the commissary.
'Where is Monsieur Hautet now?' inquired the latter. 'In the. salon, monsieur.'
Id. Bex opened a door to the left of the hall, and we passed
in. M. Hautet and his clerk were sitting at a big round table.
They looked up as we entered. The commissary introduced
us, and explained our presence.
M. Hautet the Juge d'Instrucfion, was a tall gaunt man,
with piercing dark eyes, and a neatly cut grey beard, which
he had a habit of caressing as he talked. Standing by the
mantelpiece was an elderly man, with slightly stooping
shoulders, who was introduced to us as Dr Durand.
'Most extraordinary,' remarked M. Hautet as the commissary
finished speaking. 'You have the letter here monsieur?'
Poirot handed it to and the magistrate read it.


'H'm! He speaks of a secret. What a pity he was not
more explicit. We are much indebted to you, Monsieur
Poirot. I hope you will do us the honour of assisting
us in our investigations. Or are you obliged to return to
London?'

' Monsieur le juge, I propose to remain. I did not arrive in
time to prevent my client's death, but I feel myself bound in

honour to discover the assassin.'

The magistrate bowed.

'These sentiments do you honour. Also, without doubt,
Madame Renauld will wish to retain your services. We are
expecting M. Giraud from the Sfiret in Paris any moment,
and I am sure that you and he will be able to give each other
mutual assistance in your investigations. In the meantime, I
hope that you will do me the honour to be present at my
interrogations, and I need hardly say that if there is any
assistance you require it is at your disposal.'

'I thank you, monsieur. You will comprehend that at
present I am completely in the dark. I la.ow nothhg what-ever.'

M. Hautet nodded to the commissm'y, and the latter took
up the tale:

'This morning, the old servant Fransois% on descending
to start her work, found the front door ajar. Feeling a mo-mentary
alarm as to burglars, she looked into the dning-room,
but seeing the silver was safe she thought no more
about it, concluding that her master had, without doubt,
risen early, and gone for a stroll.'

'Pardon, monsieur, for interrupting, but was that a com-mon
practice of his?'

' No, it was not, but old Fran.qoise has the common idea as
regards the English- that they are mad, and liable to do the
most unaccountable things at any moment! Going to call
her mistress as usual, a young maid, Lonie, was horrified
to discover her gagged and bound, and almost at the same


moment news was brough'tSat Monsieur Renauld's body

had been discovered, stone:dead, stabbed in the back.'
'Where?'

'That is one of the most attraordinary features of the case.

Monsieur Poirot, the body hs lying face downwards,/n an
oaven grawe.'

'Veqaat?'

'Yes. The pit was freshly dug- just a few yards ouide
the boundary of the Villa

'And it had been dead ow long?'

Dr Durand answered tl.

'I examined the body ts morning at ten o'clock. Death
must have taken place at let seven and possibly ten hours
previously.'

'H'm! that fixes it at between midnight and 3 am.'
'Exactly, and Mrs Remtfld's evidence places it at after
2 am, which narrows the fld still farther. Death must have
been instantaneous, and mtura!ly could not have been self-inflicted.'

Poirot nodded, and the commissary resumed:

'Madame Renauld was hastily freed from the cords that
bound her by the horrifxetl servants. She was in a terrible
condition of weakness, almost unconscious from the pain of
her bonds. It appears thaz two masked men entered the bed-room,
gagged and bound her, while forcibly abducting her
husband. This we know at second hand from the servants.
On hearing the tragic ne% she fell at once into an alarming
state of agitation. On areal, Dr Durand immediately pre-scribed
a sedative, and we have not yet been able to ques-tion
her. But without dot,bt she will awake more calm, and

be equal to bearing the strain of the interrogation.'

The commissary paused.

'And the inmates of th home, monsieur?'

'There is old Franoie, the housekeeper, she lived for
many years with the forter owners of the Villa Genevi&te.


20


Then there are two young girls, sisters, Denise and I.nie Oulard. Their home is in Mer/inville, and they come of most
respectable parents. Then there is the chauffeur whom Monsieur
Renauld brought over from England with him, but he
is away on a holiday. Finally there areMadame Renauld and
her son, Monsieur Jack Renauld. He, too, is away 'from
home at present.'
Poirot bowed his head./VI. Hautet spoke:
'Marchaud!'
The sergent de vitlappeared.
'Bring in the woman Franoise.'
The man saluted, and disappeared.In a moment or two he
returned, escorting the frightened Franoise.
'Your name is Franoise Arrichet ?'
'Yes, monsieur.'
'You have been a long time in service at the Villa Gene-vive?'
'Eleven years with Madame la Vicomtesse. Then when
she sold the Villa this spring, I consented to remain on will
the English tailor. Never did I imagine --'
The magistrate cut her short.
'Without doubb without /oubt. Now, Franoise, in this
matter of the front doob whose business was it to fasten it
at night?'
'Mine, monsieur. AlWays I saw to it myself.'
'And last night?'
'I fastened it as usual.'
'You are sure of that?'
'I swear it by the blessed saints, monsieur.'
'x$aat time would that be?'
'The same time as usual, half past ten, monsieur.'
'What about the rest of the household, had they gone up
to bed?'
'Madame had retired some time before. Denise and
Lonie went up with me. Monsieur was still in his study.'

2I


'Then, if anyone unfastened the door afterwards, it must
have been Monsieur Renauld hmself.
Fransoise shrugged her broad shoulders.
'What should he do that for ? With robbers and assassins
'passing every minute! A nice ideal Monsieur was not an
imbecile. It is not as though he had had to let the lady
out --'
The magistrate interrupted sharply:
'The lady? What lady do you mean?'
'Why, the lady who came to see him.'
'Had a lady been to see him that evening?'
'But yes monsieur - and many other evenings as well.'
'Who was she? Did you know her?'
A rather cunning look spread over the woman's rice.
'How should I know who it was?' she grumbled. 'I did
not let her in last night.'
'Aha!' roared the examining magistrate, bringing his hand
down with a bang on the table. 'You would trifle with the
police, would you? I demand that you tell me at once the
name of this woman who came to visit Monsieur Renauld in
the evenings.'
'The police- the police,' grumbled Fran;oise. 'Never did
I think that I should be mixed up with the police. But I
know weIl enough who she was. It was Madame Daubreuil-
The commissary uttered an exclamation, and leaned forward
as though in utter astonishment.
'Madame Daubreuil- from the Villa Marguerite just
down the road ?'
'That is what I said, monsieur. Oh, she is a pretty one.'
The old woman tossed her head scornfully.
'Madame Daubreuil,' murmured the commissary.
possible.'
' Vofl,' grumbled Fran;oise. ' That is all you get for telling
the truth.'
'Not at all,' sald the examining magistrate soothingly.


' We were surprised, that is all Madame Daubreuil then, and
Monsieur Renauld, they were --?' He paused delicately.
'Eh? It was that without doubt?'

'How should I know? But what will you? Monsieur, he
gas rrdlord angla- trs dche- and Madame Danbreuil, she
was poor, that one- and tr$ cic, for all that she lives so
quietly with her daughter. Not a doubt, ofit she has had her
history! She is no longer young, but maJbi,t I who speak to
you have seen the men's heads turn after her as she goes
down the street. Besides lately, she has had more money to
spend - all the town knows it. The little economies, they are
at an end.' And Franoise shook her head with an air of un-alterable
certainty.

M. Hautet stroked his beard reflectively.

'And Madame Renauld?' he asked at length. 'How did
she take this- friendship ?'

Frangoise shrugged her shoulders.

'She was always most amiable - most polite. One would
say that she suspected nothing. But all the same, is it not so,
the heart suffers, monsieur? Day by day, I have watched
Madame grow paler and thinner. She was not the same wo-man
who arrived here a month ago. Monsieur, too, has
changed. He also has had his worries. One could see that
he was on the brink of a crisis of the nerves. And who
could wonder, with an affair conducted in such a fashion?
No reticence, no discretion. Sqyle anglaiswithout
doubt!'

I bounded indignantly in my seat but the examining
magistrate was continuing his questions, undistracted by
side issues.

'You say that Monsieur Renauld had not to let Madame
Daubreuil out? Had she left, then?'

' Yes, monsieur. I heard them come out of the study and
go to the door. Monsieur said goodnight and shut e door
after her.'


23


'What time was that?'
'About twenty-five minutes after te monsieur.'
'Do you know when Monsieur Benauld went to
bed?'
'I heard him come up about ten minutes after we did. The
stair creaks so that one hears everyone who goes up and

'And that is all? You heard no sound of disturbance during
the night?'
'Nothing whatever, monsieur.'
'Which of the servants came down the first in the morning?'
'I did, monsieur. At once I saw the door swinging
open.'
'What about the other downstairs windows, were they
all fastened?'
'Every one of them. There was nothing suspicious or out
of place anywhere.'
'Good. Franoise, you can go.'
The old woman shuffled towards the door. On the threshold
she looked back.
'I will tell you one thing, monsieur. That Madame Daubreuil
she is a bad one! Oh, yes, one woman knows about
another. She is a bad one, remember that.' And, shaking her
head sagely, Franqoise left the room.
'Lonie Oulard,' called the magistrate.
Lionie appeared dissolved in tears, and inclined to be
hysterical. M. Hautet dealt with her adroitly. Her evidence
was mainly concerned with the discovery of her mistress
gagged and bound, of which she gave rather an exaggerated
account. She, like Franoise, had heard nothing during
the night.
Bet sister, Denise, succeeded her. She agreed that her
master had changed greatly of late.
' Every day he became more and more morose. He ate less.


He was always depressed.' But Denise had her own theory.
'Without doubt it was'the Mafia he had on his trackl Two
masked men - who else could it be? A terrible society
that!'
'It of course, possible,' said the magistrate smoothly.
' Now, my girl, was it you who admitted Madame Daubreuil
to the house last night?'
'Not/aat night, monsieur, the night before.'
'But Franoise has just told us that Madame Daubreuil
was here last night?'
'No, monsieur. A lady did come to see Monsieur Renauld
last night, but it was not Madame DaubreuiL'
Surprised, the magistrate insisted, but the girl held firm.
She knew Madame Daubreuil perfectly by sight. This lady
was dark also, but shorter, and much younger. Nothing
could shake her statement.
'Had you ever seen this lady before?'
'Never, monsieur.' And then the girl added dif[idenfly:
'But I think she was English.'
'English?'
'Yes, monsieur; She asked for Monsieur Renauld in quite
good French, but the accent- however slight one can always
tell it. Besides, v/hen they came out of the study they were
speaking in English.'
'Did you hear what they said? Could you understand it,
I mean?'
The, I speak the English very well,' aid Denise with
pride. 'The lady was speaking too fast for me to catch what
she said, but I heard Monsieur's last words as he opened the
door for her.' She paused, and then repeated carefully and
laboriously: '"Yeas- yeas- but for Gaud's saike go
latlw! "'
' Yes, yes, but for God's sake go hOWl' repeated the magistrate.
He dismissed Denise and, after a moment or two for

25


consideration, recalled Fran;oise. 'To her he protxamded
the question as to whether she had not aade a mistake in
fixing the night of Madame Daubreuii.".s visit. Franoise,
however, proved unexpectedly obsfirt:.te.. It was last
night that Madame Daubreuil had me. Without a
doubt it was she. Denise wished co tnae herself interesting, voila tout.t So she had cooked up tlJlis fine tale about
a strange lady. Airing her knowledge of English, too!
Probably Monsieur had never spoke that sentence in
English at all, and, even if he had, ist proved nothing,
for Madame Daubreuil spoke Englih perfeefly, and
generally used that language when tatlldng to Monsieur
and Madame Renanld. 'You see, Monsieur Jack, the son
of Monsieur, was usually here, a.nd he spoke the French
very badly.'
The magistrate did not insist. Iraatead, he inquired
about the chauffeur, and learned that only yesterday
Monsieur Benauld had declared that lie was not likely
to use the car, and that Magters might: just as.well take a
holiday.
A perplexed frown was begirning to gather between
Poirot's eyes.
'What is it?' I whispered.
He shook his head impatiently, and .ked a question:
'Pardon, Monsieur Bey., but withott doubt Monsieur
Renauld could drive the car himself?'
The commissary looked over at Frafoise, and the old
woman replied promptly:
' No, Monsieur did not drive himself.'
Poirot's frown deepened.
'I wish you would tell me what is wrrying you,' I said
impatiently.
'See you not? In his letter Monsieu Benauld speaks of
sending the car for me to Calais.'
' Perhaps he meant a hired car,' I suggested.
z6


'Doubtless, that is so. But why hire a ear when you have
one 'of your own ? Why choose yesterday to send away the
chauffeur on a holiday - suddenly, at a moment's notice?
Was it that for some reason he wanted him out of the way
before we arrived?'


27


CIAPTLTI &

THE
	LETTER SIGNED 'BELLA'

Fu./줼Isu. had left the room. The magistrate was drumming
thoughtfully on the table.
'Monsieur Bex,' he said at lengd'g 'here we have direcdy
eontticting testimony. Which are we to believe, Franoise
or Denise?'
'Denise,' said the commissary didedly. 'It was she who
let the visitor in. Franoise is old and obstinate and has evidently
taken a dislike to Madame Daubreuil. Besides, our
own knowledge tends to show that Renauld was entangled
with another woman.'
' Tiens.t' cried M. Hautet. 'We have forgotten to inform
Monsieur Poirot of that.' He searched among the papers
on the table, and finally handed the one he was in search of to
my friend. 'This letter, Monsieur Poirot, we found in the
pocket of the dead man's overcoat.'
Poirot took it and unfolded it. It was somewhat worn and
crumpled, and was written in English in a rather unformed
hand:
MY D.ams? From,- Why have you not written for so
long? You do love me still, don't you? Your letters lately
have been so different, cold, and strange, and now this
long silence. It makes me afraid. If you were to stop loving
me! But that's impossible - what a silly kid I am always
imagining thingsl But if You did stop loving me,
I don't know what I should do - kill myself perhaps! I
couldn't live without you. Sometimes I fancy another
woman is coming between us. Let her look out, that's all-and
you too! I'd as soon kill you as let her have you! I
mean it.

28


But there, I'm writing high-flown nonsense. You love
me, and I love you - yes, love you, love you, love you!
Your own /doring

There was no address or date. Poirot handed it back with
a grave face.
'And the assumption is --?'
The examining magistrate shrugged his shoulders.
'Obviously Monsieur Renauld was entangled with this
Englishwoman - Bella! He comes over here, meets Madame
Daubreuil, and starts an intrigue with her. He cools off to
the other, and she instantly suspects something. This letter
contains a distinct threat. Monsieur Poirot, at first sight the
case seemed simplicity itself. Jealousy! The fact that Mon
sieur tlenauId was stabbed in the back seemed to point distinctly
to its being a woman's crime.'
Poirot nodded.
'The stab in the back, yes - but not the grave! That was
laborious work, hard work- no woman dug that grave,
Monsieur. That was a man's doing.'
The commissary exclaimed excitedly:
'Yes, yes, you are fight. We did not think of that.'
'As I said,' continued M. Hautet, 'at first sight the case
seemed simple, but the masked men, and the letter you re--ceived
from Monsieur Benauld, complicate matters. Here
we seem to have an entirely different set of circumstances
with no relationship between the two. As regards the letter
written to yourself, do you think it is possible that it referred
in any way to this "Bella" and her threats?'
Poirot shook his head.
'Hardly. A man like Monsieur llenauld, who has led an
adventurous life in out-of-the-way places, would not be
likely to ask for protection against a woman.'
The examining magistrate nodded his head emphatically.


'My view exactly. Then we must look for the explanation
of the letter --'
' In Santiago,' finished the commissary.' I shall cable without
delay to the police in that city, requesting full details of
the murdered man's life out there, his love affairs, his business
transactions, his friendships, and any enmities he may
have incurred. It will be strange if, after that, we do not
hold a clue to his mysterious murder.'
The commissary looked round for approval.
'Excellent!' said Poirot appreciatively.
'You have found no other letters from riffs Bella among
Monsieur Benauld's effects?' asked Poirot.
 No. Of course one of our first proceedings was to search
through his private papers in the study. We found nothing
of interest, however. All seemed square and aboveboard.
The only thing at all out of the ordinary was his will. Here it is.'
Poirot ran through the document.
 So. A legacy of a thousand pounds to Mr Stonor - who
is he, by the way ?'
'Monsieur Benauld's secretary. He remained in England,
but was over here once or twice for a weekend.'
'And everything else left unconditionally to his beloved
wife, Eloise. Simply drawn up, but perfectly legal. Witnessed
by the two servants, Denise and Franc;oise. Nothing
so very unusual about that.' He handed it back.
'Perhaps,' began Bex, 'you did not notice--'
'The date?' twinkled Poirot. 'But, yes, I noticed it. A
fortnight ago. Possibly it marks his .first intimation of danger.
Many rich men die intestate through never considering
file likelihood of their demise. But it is dangerous to draw
conclusions prematurely. It points, however, to his having a
real liking and fondness for his wife, in spite of his amorous
intrigues.'

	Yes' said M. Hautet doubtfully. 'But it is possibly a little
3


unfair on his son, since it leaves him entirely dependent on
his mother. If she were to marry again, and her second hus--band
obtained an ascendancy over her, this boy might never

touch a penny of his father's money.'

Poirot shrugged his shoulders.

'Man is a vain animal. Monsieur Benauld figured to him-self,
without doubt, that his widow would never marry
again. As to the son, it may have been a wise precaution to
leave the money in his mother's hands. The sons of rich men
are proverbially wild.'

'It may be as you say. Now, Monsieur Poirot, you would
without doubt like to visit the scene of the crime. I am sorry
that the body has been removed, but of course photographs
have been taken from every conceivable angle, and will be at
your disposal as soon as they are available.'

'I thank you, monsieur, for all your courtesy.'

The commissary rose.

' Come with me, messieurs.'

He opened the door, and bowed ceremoniously to Poirot
to precede him. Poirot, with equal politeness, drew back and

bowed to the commissary.
' Monsieur.'
'Monsieur.'

At last they got out into the hall.

'That room there, it is the study, hdn?' asked Poirot sud-denly,
nodding towards the door opposite.

'Yes. You would like to see it?' He threw open the door
as he spoke, and we entered.

The room which M. Benauld had chosen for his own
particular use was small, but furnished with great taste and
comfort. A' business-like writing-desk, with many pigeon-holes,
stood in the window. Two large leather-covered arm-chairs
faced the fireplace, and between them was a round
table covered with the latest books and magazines.

Poirot stood a moment taking in the room, then he


stepped forward, passed his hand lightly over the backs of
the leather chairs, picked up a magazine from the table, and
drew a finger gingerly over the surface of the oak sideboard.
His face expressed complete approval
'No dust?' I asked, with a smile.
He beamed on me, appredative of my knowledge of his
peculiarities.
'Not a particle, mon am/7 And for once, perhaps, it is a
pity.'
His sharp, birdlike eyes darted here and there.
'Ahl' he remarked suddenly, with an intonation of relief.
' The hearth-rug is crooked' and he bent down to straighten
it.
Suddenly he uttered an exclamation and rose. In his hand
he held a small fragment of pink paPer.
'In France, as in England; he remarked, 'the domestics
omit to sweep under the mats?'
Bex took the fragment from him, and I came dose to
examine it.
'You recognize it-eh, Hastings ?'
I shook my head, puzzled - and yet that particular shade
of pink paper was very familiar.
The commissary's mental processes were quicker than
mine.
'A fragment of a cheque,' he exclaimed.
The piece of paper was roughly about two inches square.
On it was written in ink the word 'Duveen'.
'2Iff:n/' said Bex. 'This cheque was payable to, or drawn
by, someone named Duveen.'
'The former, I fancy,' said Poirot. 'For, if I am not mistaken,
the handwriting is that of Monsieur Renauld.'
That was soon established, by comparing it with a
memorandum from the desk.
'Dear me,' murmured the commissary, with a crestfallen
air,' I really cannot imagine how I came to overlook this.'
3z


Poirot laughed.
'The moral of that is, always look under the mats! My
friend Hastings here will tell you that anything in the least
crooked is a torment to me. As soon as I saw that the hearth-rug
was out of the straight, I said to myself: "Tiens/The legs of the chair caught it in being pushed back. Possibly
there may be something beneath it which the good Fran;oise
overlooked."'
'Fransoise?'
'Or Denise, or Lonie. Whoever did this room. Since
there is no dust, the room must have been done this morning.
I reconstruct the incident like this. Yesterday, possibly last
night, Monsieur Renauld drew a cheque to the order of some
one named Duveen. Afterwards it was torn up, and scattered
on the floor. This morning --'
But M. Bex was already pulling impatiently at the bell.
Fransoise answered it. Yes, there had been a lot of pieces
of paper on the floor. What had she done with' them? Put
them in the kitchen stove of course! What else?
With a gesture of despair, Bex dismissed her. Then, his
face lightening, he ran to the desk. In a minute he was hunting
through the dead man's cheque book. Then he repeated
his former gesture. The last counterfoil was blank.
'Courage!' cried Poirot, clapping him on the back.
'Without doubt, Madame Renauld will be able to tell us all
about this mysterious person named Duveen.'
The commissary's face cleared. 'That is true. Let us proceed.'
As we turned to leave the room, Poirot remarked casually:
'It was here `that Monsieur Renauld received his guest last
night, eh?'
'It was - but how did you know?'
'By this. I found it on the back oft. he leather chair.' And
he held up between his finger and thumb a long black hair a
woman's hair!


M. Bex took us out by th# back of the house to where
there was a small shed leaniog against the house. He produced
a key from his pocket and unloced it.
'The body is here..We moved it f%m the scene of the
crime just before you arrived, as the Ph%tographers had done

	He opened the door nd we passed The murdered man

	lay on the ground, with a sheet over hi% M. Bex dexterously

	whipped off the covering, ltenauld Was a man of medium

	height, slender, and lithe figure. I-,Ie looked about fifty

	years of age, and his drk h0ir was Pl%tifully streaked with

	 He was clean shaven th a lon. ,,;,, ,,, ,
grey
		.
,
., and eyes
set rather close together, anti hts slrir was deeply bronzed,
as that of a man who had spent mst of his life beneath
tropical skies. His lips were drawn bek from his teeth and
art expression of absolute amazennt and terror was
stamped on the livid features.
'One can see by his face hat he W'4s stabbed in the back,'
remarked Poirot.
Very gently, he tued the dead ma over. There, between
the shoulder-blades saining the light fawn overcoat, was a
round dark patch. Ia the r0iddle of it there was a slit in the
doth. Poirot examined it narrowly.
' Have you any ide with what weapon the crime was committed?'
'It was left in the wound.' The cOtmnissary reached down
a large glass jar. In it was a small OBject that looked to me
more like a paper-lqife Oan anything else. It had a black
handle and a narrow shining blade. ']the whole thing was not
more than ten inches long. Poirot tested the discoloured
point gingerly with his figer-tip.
'Maffbi.t bt it is sharpl A nice ea,y little tool for murder?
'Unfortunately, we co01d find n% trace of'fingerprints oa
it,' remarked Bex regrelly. 'T!e murderer must have
Wot'ri glove
4


. fO
course he did,' said Poirot contemptuously. 'Even in
Santiago they know enough for that. The veriest amateur of
an English Mees knows it- thanks to the publicity the Bertillon
system has been g/yen in the Press. All the same, it interests me very much that there were no fingerprints. It is
so amazingly simple to leave the fingerprints o즧omeone
else! And then the police are happy.' He shook his head. 'I
very much fear our criminal is not a man o즡ethod - either
that or he wpressed for time. But we shall see.'
He let the body fall back into its original position.
'He wore only underclothes under his overcoat, I see,' he
remarked.
'Yes, the examining magistrate thinks that is rather a
curious point.'
At this minute there was a tap on the door which Bex had
closed after him. He strode forward and opened it. Fransoise
was there. She endefivoured to peep in with ghoulish
curiosity.
'Well, what s it?' demanded Box impatiently.
' Madame. She sends a message that she is much recovered
and is quite ready to receive the examining magistrate.'
'Good,' said M. Box briskly. 'Tell Monsieur Hautet and
say that we will come at once.'
Poirot fingered a moment looking back towards the
body. I thought for a moment that he was going to apostrophize
it, to declare aloud his determination never to rest till
he had discovered the murderer.' But when he spoIe, it was
tamely and awkwardly, and his coraraent was ludicrousIy
inappropriate to the solemnity of the moment.
'He wore his overcoat very long' he said constrainedly.


CHKPTER 5

MRS RENAULD'S STORY

WE found M. Hautet awaiting us in the hall, and we all proceeded
upstairs together, Fran$oise marching ahead to show
us the way. Poirot went up in a zigzag fashion which puzzled
me, until he whispered with a grimace:
'No wonder the servants heard M. Benauld mounting the
stairs, not a board of them but creaks fit to awake the dead!'
At the head of the staircase, a small passage branched off.
'The servants' quarters,' explained/B.
We continued along a corridor, and Fran컄se tapped on
the last door to the right of it.
A faint voice bade us enter, and we passed into a large,
sunny apartment looking out towards the sea, which showed
blue and sparkling about a quarter of a mile distant.
On a couch, propped up with cushions, and attended by
Dr Durand, lay a tall, striking-looking woman. She was
middle-aged, and her once dark hair was now almost entirely
silvered, but the intense vitality, and strength of her personality
would have made itself felt an,ywhere. You lmew
at once that you were in the presence of what the French call
une mattrese jmme.
She greeted us with a dignified inclination of the head.  Pray be seated, messieurs.'
We took chairs, and the magistrate's clerk established
himself at a round table.
II hope, madame,' began M. Hautet, 'that it will not distres
you unduly to relate to us what occurred last night?'
' Not at all, monsieur. I know the value of time, if thee
-scoundrelly assassins are to be caught and punished.' t
'Very well, madame. It will fatigue you less, I think, if
I 36


I ask you questions and you confine yourself to answering
them. At what time did you go to bed last night?'
'At half past nine monsieur. I was tired.'
' And your husband ?'
'About an hour later, I fancy.'
'Did he seem disturbed.- upset in any way?'
'No, not more than usual.'
'What happened then?'
' We slept. I was awakened by a hand being pressed over
my mouth. I tried to scream out, but the hand prevented me.
There were two men in the room. They were both masked.'
'Can you describe them at all, madame?'
' One was very tall, and had a long black beard, the other
was short and stout. His beard was reddish. They both wore
hats pulled down over their eyes.'
'H'm!' said the magistrate thoughtfully. 'Too much
beard, I fear.'
'You mean they were false?'
'Yes, madame. But continue your story.'
'It was the short man who was holding me. He forced a
gag into my mouth, and then bound me with rope hand and
foot. The other man was standing over my husband. He
had caught up my little dagger paper-knife from the dress-Lng-table
and was holding it with the point just over his
heart. When the short man had finished with me he joined
the other and they forced my husband to get up and accompany
them into the dressing-room next door. I was nearly
fainting with terror, nevertheless I listened desperately.
'They were speaking in too low a tone for me to hear
what they said. But I recognized the language, a bastard
Spanish such as is spoken in some parts of South America.
They seemed to be demanding something from my husband,
and presently they grew angry and their voices rose a little.
I tlfink the tall man was speaking. "You know what we
want?" he said. "Tile sret! Where is it?" I do not know

37


what my husband answered, but the other replied fiercely:
"You lie! We know you have it. Where are your keys?"
'Then I heard sounds of drawers being pulled out. There
is a safe on the wall of my husband's dressing-room in
which he always keeps a fairly large amount of ready money.
Lonie tells me this has been rifled and the money taken, but
evidently what they were looking for was not there, for
presently I heard the tall man, with an oath, command my
husband to dress himself. Soon after that, I think some
noise in the house must have disturbed them, for they
hustled my husband out into my room only half dressed.'
'Pardon,' interrupted Poirot, 'but is there then no other
egress from the dressing-room?'
'No, monsieur there is only the communicating door into
my room. They hurried my husband througlb the short
man in front and the tall man behind him with the dagger
still in his hand. Paul tried to break away to come to me. I
saw his agonized eyes. He turned to his captors. "I must
speak to herr" he said. Then, coming to the side of the bed,
"It is all right, Eloise" he said. "Do not be afraid. I shall
return before morning." Bur, although he tried to make his
voice confident, I could see the terror in his eyes. Then they
hustled him out of the door the tall man saying: "One sound - and you are a dead man, remember."
'After that,' continued Mrs Renauld, 'I must have fainted.
The next thing I recollect is Lonie rubbing my wrists and
giving me brandy.'
' Madame Renauld,' said the magistrate,' had you any idea
what it was for which the assassins were searching?'
'None whatever, monsieur.'
'Had you any knowledge that your husband feared
something?'
'Yes. I had seen the change in him.'
'How long ago was that?'
bits Renauld reflected.


'Ten days, perhaps.'
'Not longer?'
'Possibly. I only noticed it then.'
'Did you question your husband at all as to the cause?'
'Once. He put me off evasively. Nevertheless, I was eon-vinced
that he was suffering some terrible anxiety. However,
since he evidently wished to conceal the fact from me,
I tried to pretend that I had noticed nothing.'
'Were you aware that he had called in the services of a
detective?'
'A detective?' exclaimed Mrs Renauld, very much surprised.
'Yes, this gentleman - Monsieur Hereule Poirot.' Poirot
bowed. 'He arrived today in response to a sumraons from
your husband.' And taking the letter written by M. Renauld
from his pocket he handed it to the lady.
She read it with apparently genuine astonishment.
'I had no idea of this. Evidently he was fully cognizant
of the danger.'
'Now, madame I will beg of you to be frank with me. Is
there any incident in your husband's past life in South
America which might throw light on his murder?'
Mm Ilenauld reflected deeply, but at last shook her
head.
'I can think of none. Certainly my husband had many
enemies, people he had got the better of in some way or another,
but I can think of no one distinctive case. I do not say
there is no such incident- only that I am not aware of it.'
The examining magistrate stroked his beard disconsolately.
'And you can fix the time of this outrage?'
'Yes, I distinctly remember hearing the clock on the
mantelpiece strike two.' She nodded towards an eight-day
travelling clock in a leathe, case which stood in the centre of
the clnney-piece.

39


Poirot rose from his seat, scrutinized the clock carefully,
and nodded, satisfied.

'And here too,' exclaimed M. Bex, 'is a wristwatch,
knocked off the dressing-table by the assassins, without
doubt, and smashed to atoms..Little did they know it would
testify against them.'

Gently he picked away the fragments of broken glass.

Suddenly his face changed to one of utter stupefaction.
'Mon Dieu.t' he ejaculated.
'What is it?'

'The hands of the watch point to seven o'clock!'
'What?' cried the examining magistrate, astonished.

But Poirot, deft as ever, took the broken trinket from
the startled commissary, and held it to his ear. Then he
smiled.

'The glass is broken, yes but the watch itself'is still go-lng.'

The explanation of the mystery was greeted with a re-lieved
smile. But the magistrate bethought him of another
point.

'But surely it is not seven o'clock now?'

'No,' said Poirot gently, 'it is a few minutes after five.

Possibly the watch gains, is that so, madame?'

Mrs Renaud was frowning perplexedly.

'It does gain,' she admitted. 'But I've never known it
gain quite so much as that.'

With a gesture of impatience the magistrate left the matter
of the watch and proceeded with his interrogatory.

'Madame, the front door was found ajar. It seems almost
certain that the murderers entered that way, yet it has not
been forced at all. Can you suggest any explanation?'

' Possibly my husband went out for a stroll the last thing,

and forgot to latch it when he came in.'

'Is that a likely thing to happen?'

'Very. My husband was the most absent-minded of mere'


There was a slight frown on her brow as she spoke as
though this trait in the dead man's character had at times
vexed her.
'There is one inference I think we might draw,' remarked
the commissary suddenly. 'Since the men insisted on Monsieur
Renauld dressing himself, it looks as though the place
they were taking him to, the place where "the secret" was
concealed, lay some distance away.'
The magistrate nodded.
'Yes, far, and yet not too far, since he spoke of being back
by morning.'
'What time does the last train leave the station of Merlinville?'
asked Poirot.
'x.o one way, and xz. z7 the other, but it is more probable
that they had a motor waiting.'
'Of course,' agreed Poirot, looking somewhat crestfallen.
'Indeed, that might be one way of tracing them,' continued
the magistrate, brightening. 'A motor containing
two foreigners is quite likely to have been noticed. That is
an excellent point, Monsieur Bex.'
He smiled to himself, and then, becoming grave once
more, he said to Mrs Renauld:
'There is another question. Do you know anyone of the
name of "Duveen"?'
'Duveen?' Mrs Renauld repeated thoughtfully. 'No, for
the moment, I cannot say I do.'
'You have never heard your husband mention anyone of
that name.'
' Never.'
'Do you 'know anyone whose Christian name is BelIa?'
He watched Mrs Renauld narrowly as he spoke, seeking to
surprise any signs of anger or consciousness, but she merely
shook her head in quite a natural manner, lie continued his
questions.


'Are you aware that your husband had a visitor hst
night?'

Now he saw the red mount slightly in 'er cheeks, but she
replied composedly:

'No, who was that?'
'A lady.'
'Indeed?'

But for the moment the magistrate was content to say no
more. It seemed unlikely that Madame Daubreuil had any
connexion with the crime, and he was anxious not to upset
Mrs Benauld more than necessary.

He made a sign to the commissary, and the latter replied
with a nod. Then rising, he went across the room, and re-turned
with the glass jar we had seen in the outhouse in his
hand. From this he took the dagger.

'Madame,' he said gently, 'do you recognize this ?'

She gave a little cry.

'Yes, that is my little dagger.' Then she saw the stained
point, and she drew back, her eyes widening with horror.
' Is that - blood ?'

' Yes, madame. Your husband was killed with this weapon.'
He removed it hastily from sight. 'You are qt,ite sure about
it being the one that was on your dressing-table last night?'

'Oh, yes. It was a present from Ny son. He was in the
Air Force during the War. He gave his age as older than it
was.' There was a touch of the proud mother in her voice.
'This was made from a streamline aeroplane wire, and was
given to me by my son as a souvenir of the War.'

'I see, madame. That brings us to another matter. Your
son, where is he now? It is necessary that he should be tele-graphed
to without delay.'

'Jack? He is on his way to Buenos Ayres.'

' What ?'

'Yes. My husband telegraphed to him yesterday. He had
sent him on business to Paris, but yesterday he discovered


42


that it would Le necessary for him to proceed without delay
to South America. There was a boat leaving Cherbourg for
Buenos Ayres last night, and he wired him to catch it.'

'Have you any knowledge of what the business in Buenos
Ayres was ?'

'No, monsieur, I know nothing of its nature, but Buenos
Ayres is not my son's final destination. He was going over-land
from there to Santiago.'

And, in unison, the magistrate and the commissary ex-claimed:

'Santiago! Again Santiago!'

It was at this moment, when we were all stunned by the
mention of that word, that Poirot approached Mrs Renauld.
He had been standing by the window like a man lost in a
dream, and I doubt if he had fully taken in what had passed.
I-te paused by the. lady's side with a bow.

'Pardon, madame, but may I examine your wrists ?'
Though slightly surprised at the request, Mrs Renauld
held them out to him. Round each of them was a cruel red
mark where the cords had bitten into the flesh. As he exam-ined
them, I fancied that a momentary flicker of excitement
I had seen in his eyes disappeared;

'They must muse you great pain,' he said, and once more
he looked puzzled.

But the magistrate was speaking excitedly.

'Young Monsieur Renauld must be communicated with
at once by wireless. It ii vital that we should know anything
he can tell us about this trip to Santiago.' He hesitated.'/
hoped he might have been near at hand, so that we could
have saved you pain, madame.' He paused.

'You mean,' she said in a low voice, 'the identification
my husband's body?'

The magistrate bowed his head.

'I am a strong woman, monsieur. I can bear all that is
required of me. I am ready - now.'


43


'Oh, tomorrow will be quite soon enough, I assure
you --'
'I prefer to get it over,' she said in a low tone, a spasm of
pain crossing her face. 'I즭ou will be so good as to give me
your arms doctor?'
The dotor hastened 즣rward, a cloak was thrown over
Mrs Renauld's shoulders, and a slow procession went down
the stairs. M. Box hurried on ahead to open the door of the
shed. In a minute or two Mrs Renauld appeared in the door~
w'ay. She was very pale, but resolute. She raised her hand to
her face.
'A moment, messieurs, while I steel mysel.'
She took her hand away and looked down at the dead
man. Then the marvellous sel~control which had upheld her
so far deserted her.
'Paull' she cried. 'Husband! Oh, God!' And pitching
forward she fell unconscious to the ground.
Instantly Poirot was beside her, he raised the lid of her
eye, felt her pulse. When he had satisfied himself that she
had really fainted, he drew aside. He caught me by the arm.
'I am an imbecile my friend! If ever there was love and
grief in a woman's voice, I heard it then. My little idea was
all wrong. Eh bien! I must start again!'


CttAPTER 6

THE
	SCENE OF THE CRIME

BETWEEN them, fle doctor and M. Hautet carried the unconscious
woman into the house. The commissary looked
after them, shaking his head.
'PauvreJrnme,' he murmured to himself. 'The shock was
too much for her. Well, well, we can do nothing. Now,
Monsieur Poirot, shall we visit the place where the crime
was committed?'
'If you please, Monsieur Bex.'
We passed through the house, and out by the front door.
Poirot had looked up at the staircase in passing, and shook
his head in a dissatisfied manner.
'It is to me incredible'that the servants heard nothing. The
creaking of that staircase, with three people descending it,
would awaken the dead!'
'It was the middle of the night, remember. They were
sound asleep by then.'
But Poirot continued to shake his head as though not
fully accepting the explanation. On the sweep of the drive he
paused, looking up at the house.
'What moved them in the first place to try if the front
door were open? It was a most unlikely thing that it should
be. It was far more probable that they should at once try to
force a window.'
'But all the windows on the ground floor are barred with
iron shutters,' objected the commissary.
Poirot pointed to a window on the first floor,
'That is the window of. the bedroom we have just come
from, is it not? And see- there is a tree by which it would be
the easiest thing in the world to mount.'


'Possibly,' admitted the other. 'But they could not lave
done so without leaving footprints in the flower-bed.'
I saw the justice of his words. There were two large oval
flower-beds planted with scarlet geraniums, one each side of
the steps leading up to the front door. The tree in question
had its roots actually at the back of the bed itself, and it
would have been impossible to reach it without steppirg on
the bed.
'You see,' continued the commissary, 'owing to the dry
weather no prints would show on the drive or paths; btt, on the soft mould of the flower-bed, it would have been very
different a'ffair.'
Poirot went close to the bed and studied it attentively. As
Bex had said, the mould was perfectly smooth. There was
not an indentation on it anywhere.
Poirot nodded, as though convinced, and we turned away;
but he suddenly darted off and began examining the other
flower-bed.
'Monsieur Bex!' he called. 'See here. Here are plenty of
traces for you.'
The commissary joined him - and smiled.
'My dear Monsieur Poirot, those are without doubt the
footprints of the gardener's large hobnailed boots. In any
case, it would have no importance, since this side we have
no tree, and consequently no means of gaining access to the
upper storey.'
'True,' said Poirot, evidently crestfallen. 'So yOU think
these footprints are of no importance?'
'Not the least in the world.'
Then to my utter astonishment, Polrot pronourced these
words:
'I do not agree with you. I have a little idea that these
footprints are the most. important things we have seen yet.'
M. Bex said nothing, merely shrugged his shoulders. He
was far too courteous to utter his real opinion.
46


'Shall we proceed?' he asked, instead.

 Certainly. I can investigate this matter of the footprints
later,' said Poirot cheerfully.

Instead of following the drive down to the gate, M. Ilex
turned up a path that branched offat right angles. It led, up a
slight incline, round to the right of the house, and was
bordered on either side by a kind of shrubbery. Suddenly it
emerged into a little clearing from which one obtained a view
of the sea. A seat had been placed here, and not far from it
was a rather ramshackle shed. A few steps farther on, a neat
line of small bushes marked the boundary of the Villa
grounds, bi. Bex pushed his way through these, and we
found ourselves on a wide stretch of open downs. I looked
round, and saw something that filled me with astonish

'Why,
this is a Golf Course,' I cried.

Bex nodded.

'The links are not completed yet,' he explained. 'It is
hoped to be able to open them some time next month. It was
some of the men working on them who discovered the body
early this morning.'

I gave a gasp. A little to my left, where for the moment I
had overlooked it, was a long narrow pit and by ih face
downwards, was the body of a man! For a moment, my
heart gave a terrible leap, and I had a wild fancy that the
tragedy had been duplicated. But the commissary dispelled
my illusion by moving forward with a sharp exclamation of
annoyance:

'What have my police been about? They had strict
orders to allow no one near the place without proper cre-dentials!'

The man on the ground turned his head over his shoulder.

'But I have proper credentials' he remarked and rose
slowly to his feet.

'My dear Monsieur Giraud,' cried the commissary. 'I


t7


had no idea that you had arrived, even. The examining magistrate
has been awaiting you with the utmost impatience.'
As he spoke, I was scanning the newcomer with the keenest
curiosity. The famous detective from the Pads Sfirett
was familiar to me by name and I was extremely interested
to see him in the flesh. He was very tall, perhaps about thirty
years of age, with auburn hair and moustache, and a military
carriage. There was a trace of arrogance in his manner
which showed that he was fully alive to his own importance.
Bex introduced us, presenting Poirot as a colleague. A
flicker of interest came into the detective's eye.
'I know you by name, Monsieur Poirot,' he said. 'You
cut quite a figure in the old days, didn't you? But methods
are very different now.'
'Crimes, though, are very much the same,' remarked
Poirot gently.
I saw at once that Giraud was prepared to be hostile. He
resented the other being associated with him, and I felt that
if he came across any .clue of importance he would be more
than likely to keep it to himself.
'The examining magistrate m' began Bex again.
But Giraud interrupted rudely:
'A fig for the examining maglstrate! The light is the important
thing. For all practical purposes it will be gone in
another half hour or so. I know all about the case, and the
people at the house will do very well until tomorrow; but, if
we're going to find a clue to the murderers, here is the spot
we shall find it. Is it your police who have been trampling
all over the place? I thought they knew better nowadays.'
'Assuredly they do. The marks you complain of were
made by the workmen who discovered the body.'
The other grunted disgustedly.
'I can see the tracks where the three of them came through
the hedge- but they were cunning. You can just recognize
45


the centre footmarks as those of Monsieur Benauld, but
those on either side have been carefully obliterated. Not that
there would really be much to see anyway on this hard
ground, but they weren't taking any chances.'
'The external sign,' said Poirot. 'That is what you seek,
eh?'
The other detective stared.
' Of course.'
A very faint smile came to Poirot's lips. He seemed about
to. speak, but checked himself. He bent down to where a
spade was lying.
'That's what the grave was dug with, right enough,' said
Giraud. 'But you'll get nothing from it. It was Renauld's
own spade, and the man who used it wore gloves. Here they
are.' He gesticulated with his foot to where two soil-stained
gloves were lying. 'And they're Renauld's too - or at
least his gardener's. I tell you, the men who planned out this
crime were taking no chances. The man was stabbed with his
own dagger, and would have been buried with his own
spade. They counted on leaving no traces! But I'll beat
them. There's always ,omething..t And I mean to find it.'
But Poirot was now apparently 'interested in something
else, a short, discoloured piece of lead-piping which lay b
side the spade. He touched it delicately with his finger.
'And does this, too, llelong to the murdered man?' he
asked, and I thought I detected a subtle flavour of irony in
the question.
Giraud shrugged his shoulders to indicate that he neither
knew nor cared.
'May have been lying around here for weeks. Anyway, it
doesn't interest me.'
'I, on the contrary, find it very interesting,' said Poirot
swt,yo
I guessed that he was merely bent on annoying the Paris
detective an if so, he succeeded. The other Ra'ned away

49


rudely remarking that he had no time to waste, arid bending
down he resumed his minute search of the ground.
Meanwhile, Poirot, as though struck by a sudden idea,
stepped back over the boundary, and tried the door of the
little shed.
'That's locked,' said Gimud over his shoulder. 'But it's
only a place where the gardener keeps his rubbish. The
spade didn't come from there, but from the tool-shed up by
the house.'
'Marvellous,' murmured M. Bex ecstatically to me. 'He
has been here but half an hour, and he already knows every
thing! What a man! Undoubtedly Giraud is the greatest
detective alive today/'
Although I disliked the detective heartily, I nevertheless
was secretly impressed. Efficiency seemed to radiate froru
the man. I could not help feeling that, so far, Poirot had
not greatly distinguished himself, and it vexed me. lie
seemed to be directing his attention to all sorts of silly puerile
points that had nothing to do with the case. Indeed, at this
juncture, he suddenly asked:
'Monsieur Bex, tell me, I pray you, the meaning of this
white-washed line that extends all round the grave. Is it a
device of the police?'
'No, Monsieur Poirot, it is an affair of the golf course.
It shows that there is here to be a "bunkair", as you
call it.'
'A bunkair?' Poirot turned to me. 'That is the irregular
hole filled with sand and a bank at one side is it not?'
I concurred.
'Monsieur Renauld, without doubt he played the golf?'
'Yes, he was a keen golfer. It's mainly owing to him, and
to his large subscriptions, that this work is being carried forward.
He even had a say in the designing of it.'
Poirot nodded thoughtfully. Then he remarked:
'It was not a very good choice they made - ora spot to


bury the body? When the men began to dig up the ground,
all would have been discovered.'
'Exactly,' cried Giraud triumphantly. 'And that proves float they were strangers to the place. It's an excellent piece
of indirect evidence.'
'Yes,' said Poirot doubtfully. 'No one who knew would
bury a body there'- unless they wanted it to be discovered.
And that is clearly absurd, is it not?'
Giraud did not even trouble to reply.
'Yes,' said Poirot, in a somewhat dissatisfied voice. 'Yes undoubtedly
- absurdl'


CHAPTER 7


THE
	MYSTERIOUS MADAME DAUBREUIL


As we retraced our steps to the house, M. Bex excused him-self
for leaving us, explaining that he must immediately ac-quaint
the examining magistrate with the fact of Giraud's
arrival. Giraud himself had been obviously delighted when
Poirot declared that he had seen all he wanted. The last
thing we observed, as we left the spot, was Giraud, crawling
about on all fours, with a thoroughness in Iris search that I
could not but admire. Poirot guessed my thoughts, for as
soon as we were alone he remarked ironically:

'At last you have seen the detective you admire- the
human foxhound! Is it not so, my friend?'

'At any rate, he's dolng.something,' I said, with asperity.
'If there's anything to find he ll find at. Now you --

'Eh bien! I also have found something! A piece of lead-piping.'

'Nonsense, Poirot. You know very well that's got noth-ing
to do with it. I meant little things- traces that may lead
us infallibly to the murderers.'

'Mon ami, a clue of two feet long is every bit as valuable
as one measuring two millimetres! But it is the romantic
idea that all important dues must be irffintesimal. As to the
piece of lead-piping having nothing to do with the crime,
you say that because Giraud told you so. No' - as I was
about to interpose a question- 'we will say no more. Leave
Giraud to his search, and me to my ideas. The case seems
straightforward enough - and yet- and yet, mon ami, I am
not satisfied! And do you know why? Because of the wrist-watch
that is two hours fast. And then there are several
curious little points that do not seem to fit in. For instance,


if the object of the murderers was revenge, why did they

not stab Benauld in his sleep and have done with it?'
'They wanted the "secret",' I reminded him.

Poirot brushed a speck of-dust from his sleeve with a
dissatisfied air.

' Well, where is this "secret" ? Presumably some distance
away, since they wish him to dress himself. Yet he is found
murdered close at hand, almost within ear-shot of the house.
Then again, it is pure chance that a weapon such as the

dagger should be lying about casually, ready to hand.'
He paused, frowning, and then went on:

' Why did the servants hear nothing? Were they drugged ?
Was there an accomplice, and did that accomplice see to it
that the front door should remain open? I wonder if--'

He stopped abruptly. We had reached the drive in front
of the house. Suddenly he turned to me.

'My friend, I am about to surprise you- to please you!
I have taken your reproaches to heart! We will examine

some footprints!'

 Where?'

'In that right-hand bed yonder. Monsieur Bex says that
they are the footmarks of the gardener. Let us see if this is
so. See, he approaches with his wheelbarrow.'

Indeed an elderly man was just crossing the drive with a
barrowful of seedlings. Poirot called to him, and he set
down the barrow and came hobbling towards us.

'You are going to ask him for one of his boots to com-pare
with the footmarks?' I asked breathIessly.'My faith in
Poirot revived a little. Since he said the footprints in this

right-hand bed were important presumably they were.
'Exactly,' said Poirot.

'But won't he think it very odd ?'

'He will not think about it at all.'

We could say no more, for the old man had joined us.
'You want me for something, monsieur?'

53


Yes. You have been gardener here a long time, haven't
you?'

' Twenty-four years, monsieur.'
'And your name is
CAuguste, monsieur.'

'I was admiring these magnificent geraniums. They are
truly superb. They have been planted long?'

'Some times monsieur. But of courses to keep the beds
looking smart, one must keep bedding out a few new plants,
and remove those that are over, besides keeping the old
blooms well picked off.'

'You put in some new plants yesterday, didn't you?
Those in the middle there and in the other bed also.'

' Monsieur has a sharp eye. It takes always a day or so for
them to "pick up". Yes, I put ten new plants in each bed last
night. As monsieur doubtless knows, one should not put in
plants when the sun is hot.' Auguste was charmed with
Poirot's interest, and was quite inclined to be garrulous.

' That is a splendid specimen there,' said Poirot, pointing.
'Might I perhaps have a cutting of it?'

'But certainly, monsieur.' The old fellow stepped into
the bed, and carefully took a slip from the plant Poirot had
admired.

Poirot was profuse in his thanks, and Auguste departed to
his barrow.

'You see?' said Poirot with a smile, as he bent over the
bed to examine the indentation of the gardener's hobnailed

boot. 'It is quite simple.'

'I did not realize --'

'That the foot would be inside the boot? You do not use
your excellent mntal capacities suciently. Well, what of
he footmark?'

I examined the bed carefully.

'All the pounds otmarks in the bed were made by the same
boot* I said at length after a careful study.


4


'You think so? Eh bien.t I agree with you[ said
Poirot.

He seemed quite uninterested, and as though he were
thinking of something else.

'At any rate,' I remarked, 'you will have one bee less in
your bonnet now.'

'M'on Dieu.t But what an idiom! What does it mem?'

'What I meant was that now you will give up your in-terest
in these footmarks.'

But to my surprise Poirot shook his head.

'No, no, mon amL At last I am on the right track. I am
still in the dark, but, as I hinted just nov& to Monsieur Be,
these footmarks are the most important and interesting
things in the case! That poor Giraud - I should not be sur-prised
if he took no notice of them whatever.'

At that moment the front door opened, and M. Hautet
and the commissary came down the steps.

'Ah, Monsieur Poirot, we were coming to look for you,'
said the magistrate. 'It is getting late, but I wish to pay a
visit to Madame Daubreuil. Without doubt she will be very
much upset by Monsieur B. enauld's death, and we may be
fortunate enough to get a clue from her. The secret that he
did not confide to his wife, it is possible that he may have
told it to the woman whose love held him enslaved. We
know where our Samsons are weak, don't we?'

We said no more, but fell.into line. Poirot walked vAth
the examining magistrate, and the commissary and I fol-lowed
a few paces behind.

'There is no doubt that Franoise's story is substantially
correct,' he remarked to me in a confidential tone. 'I have
been telephoning headquarters. It seems that three times in
the last six weeks- that is to say since the arrival of Monsieur
Renauld at Merlinville- Madame Daubreuil has paid a large
sum in notes into her banking account. Altogether the sum
totals two hundred thousand francst'


'Dear me; I said, considering, 'that must be something
like four thousand pounds?

'Preci.ly. Yes, there can be no doubt that he was abso-lutely
infatuated. But it remains to be seen whether he con-tided
his secret to her. The examining magistrate is hopeful,
but I hardly share his views.'

During this conversation we were walking down the lane
towards the fork in the road where our car had halted earlier
in the afternoon, and in another moment I realized that the
Villa Marguerite, the home of the mysterious Madame
Daubreuil, was the small house from which the beautiful girl
had emerged.

' She has lived here for many years,' said the commissary
nodding his head towards the house. 'Very quietly, very
unobtrusively. She seems to have no friends or relations
other than the acquaintances she had made in Merlinville.
She never refers to the past, nor to her husband. One does
not even know if he is alive or dead. There is a mystery
about her, you comprehend.'

I nodded, my interest growing.

'And- the daughter?' I ventured.

'A truly beautiful young girl- modest, devout, all that
she shoult bl. One pities her, for, though she may know
nothing of the past, a man who wants to ask her hand in mar-riage
must necessarily inform himself, and then --' The
commissary shrugged his shoulders cynically.

'But it would not be her faultV I cried, with rising in-dignation.

'No. But what will you? A man is particular about his
wife's antecedents.'

I was prevented from further argument by our arrival at
the door. M. Hautet rang the bell. A few minutes elapsed,
and then we heard a footfall within, and the door was opened:
On the threshold stood my young goddess of that afternoon.
When she saw us, the colour left her cheeks, leaving her


deathly white, and her eyes widened with apprehensio.n.
There was no doubt about it, she was afraidl
'Mademoiselle Daubreuil,' said M. Hautet, sweeping off
his hat, 'we regret infinitely to disturb you, but the exigencies
of the Law, you cohaprehend? My compliments to
madame your mother, and will she have the goodness to
grant me a few moments' interview?'
For a moment the girl stood motionless. Her left hand
was pressed to her side, as though to still the sudden unconquerable
agitation of her heart. But she mastered herself,
and said in a low voice:
'I will go and see. Please come inside.'
She entered a room on the left of the hall, and we heard
the low murmur of her voice. And then another voice, much
the same in timbre, but with a slightly harder inflection be-tfind
its mellow roundness, said:
' But certainly. Ask them to enter.'
In another minute we were face to face with the mysterious
Madame Daubreuil.
She was not nearly so tall as her daughter, and the
rounded curves of her figure had All the grace of full maturity.
Her hair, again unlike her daughter's, was dark, and
parted in the middle in the Madonna style. Her eyes, half
hidden by the drooping lids, were blue. Though very well
preserved, she was certainly no longer young, but her charm
was of the quality which is independent of age.
'You wished to see me, monsieur?' she asked.
'"Yes, madame.' M. Hautet cleared his throat. 'I am investigating
the death of Monsieur Benauld. You have heard
of it, no doubt?'
She bowed her head without speaking. Her expression
did not change.
'We came to ask you whether you can - er- throw any
light upon the circumstances surrounding it?'
'I?' The surprise of her tone was excellent.

$7


'Yes, madame. We have reason to believe that you were
in the habit of visiting the dead man at his Villa in the even-ings.
Is that so ?'

The colour rose in the lady's pale cheeks, but she replied
quietly:

'I deny your right to ask me such a question!'
'Madame, we axe investigating a murder.'

'Well, what of it? I had nothing to do with the
murder;'

'Madame, we do not say that for a moment. But you knew
the dead man well Did he ever confide in you as to any

danger that threatened him?'

' Never.'


	Did he ever mention his life in Santiago, and any enemies

he may have made there ?'

' No.'

'Then you can give us no help at all?'

'I fear not. I really do not see why you should come to
me. Cannot his wife tell you what you want to know?' Her
voice held a slender inflection of irony.

' Mrs Penauld has told us all she can.'

'Ah!' said Madame Daubreuil. 'I wonder--'
'You wonder what madame?'
'Nothing.'

The examining magistrate looked at her. He was aware
that he was fighting a duel, and that he had no mean anta-gonist.

'You persist in your statement that Monsieur 1qenauld
confided nothing to you?'

' Why should you think it likely that he should confide in
me?'

'Because, madame[ said M. Hautet, with calculated bru-tality,
'a man tells to his mistress what he does not always
tell to his wife.'

'Ahl' She sprang forward. Her eyes flashed fire. 'Mon
58


sieur, you insult me! And before my daughter! I can tell you
nothing. Have the goodness to leave my house!'
The honours undoubtedly rested with the lady. We left
the Villa Marguerite like a shamefaCed pack of schoolboys.
The magistrate muttered angry ejaculations to himself.
Poirot seemed lost in thought. Suddenly he came out of his
reverie with a start, and inquired of M. Hautet if there was a
good hotel near at hand.
'There is a small place, the Hotel des Bains, on this side of
the town. A few hundred yards down the road. It will be
handy for your investigations. We shall see you in the morning,
then, I presume?'
' Yes, I thank you, Monsieur Hautet.'
With mutual civilities we parted company, Poirot and I
going towards Merlinville, and the others returning to the
Villa Genevieve.
'The French police system is very marvellous,' said
Poirot, looking after them. 'The information they possess
about everyone's life, down to the most commonplace' detail,
is extraordinary. Though he has only been here a little
over six weeks, they are peffecdy well acquainted with Monsieur
Benauld's tastes and pursuits, and at a moment's notice
they can produce information as to Madame Daubreuil's
banking account, and the sums that have lately been paid in!
Undoubtedly the dossier is a great institution. But what is that?' He turned'sharply.
A figure was running hatlesg down the road after us. It
was Marthe Daubreuil.
'I beg your pardon,' she cried breathlessly, as she reached
us. 'I - I should not do this, I know. You must not tell my
mother. But is it true, what the people say, that Monsieur
Benauld called in a detective before he died, and - and that'
you are he?'
'Yes, mademoiselle,' said Poirot gently. 'It is quite true.
But how did you learn it?'

9


'Franoise told our Amlie' explained Marthe with a
blush.
Poirot made a grimace.
'The secrecy, it is impossible in an affair of this kind! Not
that it matters. Well, mademoiselle, what is it you want to
know?'
The gift hesitated. She seemed longing, yet fearing, to
speak. At last, almost in a whisper, she asked: 'Is - anyone suspected ?'
Poiret eyed her keenly.
Then he replied evasively:
'Suspicion is in the air at present, mademoiselle.'
'Yes, I know- but- anyone in particular ?'
'Why do you want to know?'
The girl seemed frightened by the question. All at once
Poirot's words about her earlier in the day occurred to me.
The 'girl with the anxious eyes'.
'Monsieur P, enauld was always very kind to me,' she
replied at last. 'It is natural tlt I should be interested.'
'I see,' said Poirot. 'Well, mademoiselle, suspicion at
present is hovering round two persons.'
'Two?'
I could have sworn there was a note of surprise and relief
in her voice.
'Their names are unknown, but they are presumed to be
Chileans from Santiago. And now, mademoiselle, you see
what comes of being young and beautiful! I have betrayed
professional secrets for you!'
The girl laughed merrily, and then, rather shyly, she
thanked him.
'I must nm back now..Mama will miss me.'
And she turned and ran back up the road, looking like a
modem Atalanta. I stared after her.
'.M'on ami,' said Poirot, in his gentle ironical voice, 'is it
that we are to remain planted here all night- just because


,!

you have seen a beautiful young woman, and your head is in
a whirl.'
I laughed and apologized.
'But she is beautiful, Poirot. Anyone might be excused
for being bowled over by her.'
But to my surprise Poirot shook his head very
earnestly.
'Ah, mon am;, do not set your heart on Man-he Daubreuil.
She is not for you, that one! Take it from Papa
Poirotl'
'Why,' I cried, 'the commissary assured me that she was
as good as she is beautiful! A perfect angel!'
'Some of the greatest criminals I have known had the
faces of angels,' remarked Poirot cheerfully. 'A malformation
c thegrey cells may coincide quite easily with the face
of a Madonna.'
'Poirot,' I cried, horrified, 'you cannot mean that you
suspect an innocent child like this!'
'Ta-ta-ta! Do not excite yourself! I have not said that I
suspected her. But you must admit that her anxiety to know
about the case is somewhat unusual.'
'For once I see farther than you do,' I said. 'Her anxiety
is not for herself- but for her mother.'
'My friend,' said Poirot, 'as usual, you see nothing at all.
Madame Daubreuil is very well able to look after herself
without her daughter worrying about her. I admit I was
teasing you just now, but all the same I repeat what I said before.
Do not set your heart on'that girl She is not for youl
I, Hercule Poirot, know it. Saerg! if only I could remember
where I had seen that face?'
'What face?' I asked, surprised. 'The daughter's?'
'No. The mother's.'
Noting my surprise, he nodded emphatically.
' But yes - it is as I tell you. It was a long time ago, when
I was still with the Police in Belgium. I have never actually
6x


seen the woman before, but I have seen her picture- and in
connexion with some case. I rather fancy "
'Yes?'
'I may be mistaken, but I rather fancy that it was a
murder case!'


CHAPTER 8

AN UNEXPECTED MEETING

Wu were up at the Villa betimes next morning. The man
on guard at the gate did not bar our way this time. Instead,
he respectfully saluted us, and we passed on to the house.
The maid Lonie was just coming down the stairs, and
seemed not averse to the prospect of a little conversation.
Poirot inquired after the health of Mrs Renauld.
Ionie shook her head.
'She is terribly upset, the poor hdy! She will eat nothing-
but nothing! And she is as pale as a ghost. It is
heartrending to see her. Ah, it is not I who would grieve
like that for a man who had deceived me with another
womanl'
Poirot nodded sympathetically.
'What you say is very just, but what will you? The heart
of a woman who loves will forgive many blows. Still undoubtedly
there must have been many scenes of recrimination
between them in the last few months?'
Again Inie shook her head.
'Never, monsieur. Never have I heard madame utter a
word of protest- of reproach evgnl She had the temper and
disposition of an angel- quite different to monsieur.'
'Monsieur Renauld had not the temper of an angel?'
'Far from it. When he enraged himself, the whole house
knew of it. The day that he quarrelled with Monsieur Jack- ma Jbll they might have been heard in the marketplace,
they shouted so loudl'
'Indeed,' said Poirot. 'And when did this quarrel take
phee?'
'Oh, it vs lust before Monsieur ]ack went to Paris.


Almost he missed his train. He came out of the library, and
caught up his bag which he had left in the hall. The auto--mobile,
it was being repaired, and he had to run for the sta-tion.
I was dusting the salon, and I saw him pass, and his face
was white- white - with two burning spots of red. Ah, but
he was angry!'

Lonie was enjoying her narrative thoroughly.

'And the dispute, what was it about?'

'Ah, that I do not know,' confessed Lonie. 'It is true that
they shouted, but their voices were so loud and high, and
they spoke so fast, that only one well acquainted with Eng-lish
could have comprehended. But monsieur, he was like a
thundercloud all day! Impossible to please him!'

The sound of a door shutting upstairs cut short Lonie's
loquacity.

'And Franoise who awaits me!' she exclaimed, awaken-ing
to a tardy remembrance of her duaies. 'That old one, she
always scolds.'

'One moment, mademoiselle. The examining magistrate,
where is he?'

' They have gone out to look at the automobe in the gar-age.
Monsieur the commissary had some idea that it might
have been used on the night of the murder.'

'Que//e fi/de,' murmured Poirot, as the girl disappeared.
'You will go out and join them?'

'No, I shall await their return in the sMon. It is cool there
on this hot morning.'

This placid way of taking things did not quite commend
itself to me.

'If you don't mind ---' I said, and hesitated.

'Not in the least. You wish to investigate on your own
account, eh?'

'Well, I'd rather like to have a look at Giraud, if he's any-where
about, and see what he's up to.'

'The human foxhound,' murmured Poirot, as he leaned


back in a comfortable chair, and dosed Ms eyes. 'By all
means, my friend. Au revoir.'
I strolled out of the front door. It was certainly hot. I
mined up the path we had taken the day before. I had a
mind to study the scene of the crime myself. I did not go
directly to the spot, however, but turned aside into the
bushes, so as to come out on the links some hundred yards or
so farther to the right. The shrubbery here was much denser,
and I had quite a struggle to force my way through. When
I emerged at last on the course, it was quite unexpectedly
and with such vigour that I cannoned heavily into a young
lady who had been standing with her back to the plantatiom
She not unnaturally gave a suppressed shriek, but I, too,
uttered an exclamation of surprise. For it was my friend of
the train, Cinderella!
The surprise was mutual.
'You? we both exclaimed simultaneously.
The young lady recovered herself first.
'My only atmtl' she exclaimed. 'What are you doing
here?'
'For the matter of that, what are you?' I retorted.
' When last I saw you, the day before yesterday, you were
trotting home to England like a good little boy.'
'When last I sawyou,' I .said, 'you were trotting home
with your sister, like a good little girl- By the way, how is
your sister?'
A flash of white teeth rewarded me.
'How kind of you to askl My sister is well, I thank you.'
' She is here with you ?'
'She remained in town,' said the minx with dignity.
'I don't believe you've got'a sister,' I laughed. 'If you
have, her name is Harris!'
'Do you remember mine?' she asked with a smile.
' Cinderella. But you're going to tell me the real one now,
aren't you?'
6


She shook her head with a wicked look.
'Not even why you're here?'
'Oh, t/tat.t I suppose you've heard of members of my
profession "resting".'
'At expensive French watering-places ?'
'Din cheap if you know where to go.'
I eyed her keenly.
' $fil! you'd no intention of coming here when I met you
two days ago?'
'We-all have our disappointments,' said Miss Cinderella
sententiously. 'There now, I've told you quite as much as is
good for you. Little boys should not be inquisitive. You've
not yet told me whatyo,,'re doing here?'
'You remember my telling you that my great friend was
detective?'
'Yes?'
'And perhaps you've heard about this crime- at the Villa
Genevieve --?'
She stared at me. Her breast heaved, and her eyes grew
wide and round.
'You don't mean- that you're in on
I nodded. There was no doubt that I had scored heavily. Her emotion, as she regarded me, was only too evident. For some few seconds she remained silent, staring at me. Then
she nodded her head emphatically.
'Well, if that doesn't beat the bandl Tote me round. I
want to see all the horrors.'

'What I say. Bless the boy, didn't I tell you I doted on
crimes? I've been nosing round for hours. It's a real piece of
luck happening on you this way. Come on, show me all the

'But look here - wait a minute - I can't. Nobody's
'Aen't you and your friend the big bugs?'


I loath to relinquish my position oflmportance.
'Why are you so keen?' I asked weakly. 'And what is it
you want to see ?'
'Oh, everything! The place where it happened, and the
weapon, and the body, and any fingerprints or interesting
things like that. I've never had a chance before of being right
in on a murder like this. It'll last me all my life.'
I turned away, sickened. What were women coming
to nowadays? The girl's ghoulish excitement nauseated
me.
'Come offyour high horse,' said the lady suddenly. 'And
don't give yourself airs. When you got called to this job, did'
you put your nose in the air and say it was a nasty business,
and you wouldn't be mixed up in it?'
'No, but m'
'If you'd been here on a holiday, wouldn't you be nosing
round just the same as I am? Of course you would.'
'I'm a man. You're a woman.'
'Your idea of a woman is someone who gets on a chair
and shrieks if she sees a mouse. That's all prehistoric. But
you w///show me round, won't you? You see, it might make
a big difference to me.'
'In what way?'
'They're keeping all the reporters out. I might make a
big scoop with one of the papers. You don't know how
much they pay fora bit of inside stuff.'
I hesitated. She slipped a small soft hand into mine. 'Pleaae- there's a dear.'
I capitulated. Secretly, I knew that I should rather enjoy
the part of showman.
We repaired first to the spot where the body had been discovered.
A man was on guard there, who saluted respectfully,
knowing me by sight, and raised no questions as to my
companion. Presumably he regarded her as vouched for by
me. I explained to Cinderella just how the discovery had


been made, and she listened attentively, sometimes putting
an intelligent question. Then we turned our steps in the
direction of the Villa. I proceeded rather cautiously, for,
truth to tell, I was not at all anxious to meet anyone. I took
the girl through the shrubbery round to the back of the
house where the small shed was. I recollected that yesterday
evening, after relocking the door, M. Bex had left the key
with the sergent de ville, Marchaud, ' In case Monsieur Giraud
should require it while we are upstairs.' I thought it quite
likely that the Sfiret detective, after using it, had returned it
to Marchaud again. Leaving the girl out of sight in the shrub.bery, I entered the house. Marchaud was on duty outside
the door of the salon. Fronx within came the murmur of
Voices.
'Monsieur desires Monsieur Hautet? He is within. He i
again interrogating Fransoise.'
 No,' I said hastily, 'I don't want him. But I should very
much like the key of the shed outside if it is not against
regulations.'
'But certainly, monsieur.' He produced it. 'Here it is.
Monsieur Hautet gave ordex-s that all facilities were to be
placed at your disposal You will return it to me when you
have finished out there, that is all.'
' Of course,'
I felt a thrill of satisfaction as I realized that in Marchaud's
eyes, at least, I ranked eqully in importance with Poirot.
The girl was waiting for me. She gave an exclamation of delight
as she saw the key in thy hand.
'You've got it then?'
' Of course,' I said coolly. 'All the same, you know, what
I'm dOing is highly irregular.'
'You've been a perfect dtaclg and I shan't forget it. Come
along. They can't see us froth the house, can they?'
'Wait a minute.' I arrest:ed her eager advance. 'I vton't
stop you if you really wisl to go in. But do you? You've
68


seen the grave, and the grounds, and you've heard all the
details of the aair. Isn't that enough for you? This is going
to be gruesome, you know, and- unpleasant.'
She looked at me for a moment with an expression that I
could not quite fathom. Then she laughed.
The for the honors,: she said. 'Come along.'
In silence we arrived at the door of the shed. I opened it
and we passed in. I walked over to the body, and gently
pulled down the sheet as Bex had done the preceding afternoon.
A little gasping sound escaped from the girl's lips,
and I turned and looked at her. There was horror on her face
now, and those debonair high spirits of hers were quenched
uttdrly. She had not chosen to listen to my advice, and she
was punished now for her disregard of it. I felt singularly
merciless towards her. She should go through with it now.
I turned the corpse over gently.
 You see,' I said.' He was stabbed in the back.'
Her voice was almost soundless. ' With what ?'
I nodded towards the glass jar.
'That dagger.'
Suddenly the girl reeled, and then sank down in a heap. I
sprang to her assistance.
'You are faint. Come out of here. It has been too much
for you.'
' Water,' she murmured.Quick. Water.'
I left her, and rushed into the house. Fortunately none of
the servants were about and I was able to secure a glass of
water unobserved and add a few drops of brandy from a
pocket flask. In a few minutes I was back again. The girl
was lying as I had left her, but a few sips of the brandy and
water revived her in a marvellous manner.
'Take me out of here- oh quickly, quicklyl' she cried,
shuddering.
Supporting her with my arm, I led her out into the air,


and she pulled the door to behind her. Then she drew a deep
breath.
'That's better. Oh, it was horfiblel Why did you ever let me go in?'
I felt this to be so feminine that I COuld not forbear a smile.
Secretly, I was not dissatisfied with her collapse. It proved
that she was not. quite so callous as I had thought her. After
all she was little more than a child, and her curiosity had
probably been of the unthinking order.
'I did my best to stop you, you know,' I said gently.
'I suppose you did. Well, goodbye.'
'Look here, you can't start offlike that- all alone. You're
not fit for it. I insist on accompanying you back to Mefiinville.'
' Nonsense. I'm quite all right now.'
'Supposing you felt faint again? No, I shall come with
you.'
But this she combated with a good deal of energy. In
the end, however, I prevailed so far as to be allowed to
accompany her to the outskirts of the town. We retraced
our steps over our former route, passing the grave again,
and making a detour on to the road. Where the first straggling
line of shops began, she stopped and held out her
hand.
' Goodbye, and thank you ever so much for coming with
rile/
'Are you sure you're all right now?'
'Quite, thanks. I hope you won't get into any trouble
over showing me things.'
I disclaimed the idea lightly.
' Well, goodbye.'
'Au revoir,' I corrected. 'If you're staying here, we shall
meet again.'
She flashed a smile at me.
'That's so. Au revoh', then.'


'Wait a second, you haven't told me your address.'
'Oh, I'm. staying at the Hotel du Phare. It's a little place,
but qui'te good. Come and look me up tomorrow.'
'I will,' I said, with perhaps rather unnecessary emprese-

I watched her out of sight, then turned and retraced my
steps to the Vi/la. I remembered that I had not relocked the
door of the shed. Fortunately no one had noticed the oversight,
and turning the key I removed it and returned it to the  ergent de wille. And, as I did so, it came upon me suddenly
that though Cinderella had given me her address I still did
not know her name.


CHAFrER g


M. GIRAUD FINDS SOME CLUES


IN the :don I found the examining magistrate busily inter-rogating
the old gardener Auguste. Poirot and the commis-sary,
who were both present, greeted me respectively with a
smile and a polite bow. I slipped quietly into a seat. M.
Hautet was painstaking and meticulous in the extreme, but
did not succeed in eliciting anything of importance.

The gardening gloves Auguste admitted to be his. He
wore them when handling a certain species of primula plant
which was poisonous to some people. He could not say
when he had worn them last. Certainly he had not missed
them. Where were they kept? Sometimes in one phce, some-times
in another. The spade was usually to be found in the
small tool-shed. Was it locked? Of course it was locked.
Where was the key kept? Parbleu, it was in the door of
course. There was nothing of value to steal. Who ,would
have expected a party of bandits, or assassins? Such things
did.not happen in Madalne la Vicomtesse's time.

M. Hautet signifying that he had finished with him, the
old man withdrew, grumbling to the last. Remembering
Poirot's unaccountable insistence on the footprints in the
flower-beds, I scrutinized him narrowly as he gave his evi-dence.
Either he had nothing to do with the crime or he was
a consummate actor. Suddenly just as he was going out of
the door an idea struck me.

'Pardon, Monsieur Hautet,' I cried, 'but will you permit

me to ask him one question ?'

'But certainly monsieur.'

Thus encouraged, I turned to Auguste.

'Where do you keep your boots?'


'On my feet,' growled the old man. 'Where else?'
'But when you go to bed at night?'
'Under my bed.'

' But who cleans them ?'

'Nobody. Why should they be cleaned? Is it that I
promenade myself on the front like a young man? On Sun-day
I wear the Sunday boots, but otherwise --' He shrugged
his shoulders.

I shook m,y head, discouged.

'Well, well,' said the magistrate, 'we do not advance very
.much. Undoubtedly we are held up until we get the return
cable from Santiago. Has anyone seen Giraud ? In verity that
one lacks politeness! I have a very good mind to send for
him and w'

'You will not have to send far.'

The quiet voice startled us. Giraud was standing outside
looking in through the open window.

He leapt lightly into the room and advanced to the table.

'Here I am, at your service. Accept my excuses for not
presenting myself sooner.'

'Not at all- not at alll' said the magistrate, rat. her con-fused.

'Of course I am only a detective,' continued the other.
'I know nothing of interrogatories. Were I conducting one,
I should be inclined to do so without an open window. Any-one
standing outside can so easily hear all that passes. But no
matter.'

M. Hautet flushed angrily. There was evidently going to
be no love lost between the examining magistrate and the
detective in charge of the case. They had ihllen foul of each
ether at ',he start. Perhaps in any event it would have been
much the same. To Giraud, all examining magistrates were
fools, and to M. Hautet, who took himself seriously, the
casual manner of the Paris detective could not fail to give
offence.


'Et bien, Monsieur Giraud,' said the magistrate rather
sharply. 'Without doubt you have been employing your
time to a marvel! You have the names of the assassins for us,
have you not? And also the precise spot where they find
themselves now?'
Unmoved by this irony, M. Giraud replied:
'I know at least where they have come from.'
Giraud took two small objects from his pocket and laid
them down on the table. We crowded round. The objects
were very simple ones: the stub of a cigarette and an unlighted
match. The detective wheeled round on Poirot.
'What do you see there?' he asked.
There was something almost brutal in his tone. It made
my cheeks flush. But Poirot.remained unmoved. He shrugged
his shoulders.
'A cigarette end and a match.'
'And what does that tell you?'
Poirot spread out his hands.
'It tells me- nothing.'
'Ah!' said Giraud, in a satisfied voice. 'You haven't
made a study of these things. That's not an ordinary match
- not in this country at least. It's common enough in South
America. Luckily it's unlighted. I mightn't have recognized
it otherwise. Evidently one of the men threw away his
cigarette and lit another, spilling one match out of the box as
he' did so.'
'And the other match?' asked Polrot.
' Which match ?'
'The one he did light his cigarette with. You have found
that also?'
NOo
'Perhaps you didn't search very thoroughly.'
'Not search thoroughly ---' For a moment it seemed as
though the detective was going to break out angrily, but
with an effort he controlled himself. 'I see you love a joke,

74


Monsieur Poirot. But in any case, match or no match, the
cigarette end would be sufficient. It is a South American
cigarette with liquorice pectoral paper.'
Poirot bowed. The commissary spoke:
'The dgarette end and match might have belonged to
Monsieur Benauld. Remembei-, it is only two years since he
returned from South America.'
'No,' replied the other confidently. 'I have already
searched among the effects of Monsieur Renauld. The dgarettes
he smoked and the matches he used are quite different.'
'You do not think it odd,' asked Poirot, 'that these
strangers should come unprovided with a weapon, with
gloves, with a spade, and that they should so conveniently
find all these things ?'
Giraud smiled in a rather superior manner.
'Undoubtedly it is strange. Indeed, without the theory
that I hold, it would .be inexplicable.'
'Aha!' said M. Hautet. 'An accomplice within the house!'
' Or outside ih' said Giraud, with a peculiar smile.
'But someone must have admitted them. We cannot
allow that, by an unparalleled piece of good fortune, they
found the door ajar for them to walk in?'
'The door was opened for them; but it could just as easily
be opened from outside - by someone who possessed a
key.'
' But who d/possess a key?' .
Giraud shrugged his shoulders.
'As for that, no one who possesses one is going to admit
the fact if he can help it. But several people might have had
one. Monsieur Jack Benauld, the son, for instance. It is true
that he is on his way to South America, but he might have
lost the key or had it stolen from him. Then there is the
gardener- he has been here many years. One of the younger
servants may have a lover. It is easy to take an impression of
a key and have one cut. There are many possibilities. Then


there is another person who, I should judge, is exceedingly
likely to have such a thing.'
"gho is that?'
'ldame Daubreuil,' said the detective.
'Eh, e-hi' said the magistrate. 'So you have heard about
that, have you?'
'I heat- everything,' said Giraud imperturbably.
'Ther is one thing I could swear you have not heard,'
said Hautet, delighted to be able to show superior knowledge,
and without more ado he retailed the story of the
mysterious visitor the night .before. He also touched on the
cheque made out to 'Duveen', and finally handed Giraud
the letter signed' BeHa'.
'All Very interesting. But my theory remains unaffected.'
'And your theory is?'
'For the moment I prefer not to say. Remember, I am
only just beginning my investigations.'
'Tell me one thing, Monsieur Giraud' said Po[rot suddenly.
"Your theory allows for the door being opened. It
does not explain why it was/ti} open. When they departed,
would it not have been natural for them to close it behind
them. If' a sergent if had chanced to come up to the
hous% aa is sometimes done to see that all is well, they might
have beea discovered and overtaken almost at once.'
'Bahl 'They forgot it. A mistake, I grant you.'
Then to my surpris Poirot uttered almost the same
words a he had uttered to Bex the previous evening:
'I ffo 'zoe agree w/ttyou. The door being left open was the
result of' either design or necessity, and any theory that does
not admit that fact is bound to prove vain.'
We all regarded the little man with a good deal of
astonish.ment. The confession of ignorance drawn from him
over the match end had, I thought, been bound to humiliate
him, but here he was self-satisfied as ever, hying down the
hw t (iraud without a tremor.


qne detective twisted his moustache, eyeing my friend in
a somewhat bantering fashion.
'You don't agree with me, eh? Well, what strikes you
particularly about the case? Let's hear your views.'
'One thing presents itself to me as being significant.
Tell me, Monsieur Giraud, does nothing strike you as familiar
about this case? Is there nothing it reminds you of?'
'Familiar? Reminds me of? I can't say off-hand. I don't
think so, though.'
' You are wrong,' said Poirot quietly. 'A crime almost precisely
similar has been committed before.'
'When? And where?'
'Ah, that, unfortunately,. I cannot for the moment r-member,
but I shall do so. I had hopedyou might be able to
assist me.'
Giraud snorted incredulously.
'There have been many affairs of masked men. I cannot
remember the details of them all The crimes all resemble
each other more or less.'
'There-is such a thing as the individual touch.' Poirot
suddenly assumed his lecturing manner, and addressed us
collectively. 'I am sp,- king to you now of the psychology
of crime. Monsieur Giraud knows quite well that each
criminal has his particular, method, and that the police, when
called in to investigate, say, a case of burglary, can often
make a hrewd guess at the offender, simply by the peculiar
methods he has employed. (Japp would tell you the same,
Hastings.) Man is an unoriginal animal Unoriginal within
the law in his daily respectable life, equally unoriginal outside
the law. If a man commits a crime, any other crime he
commits will resemble it closely. The English murderer
who disposed of his wives in succession by drowning them
in their baths was a case in point. Had he varied his methods,
he might have escaped detection to this day. But he obeyed
the common dictates of human nature, arguing that what


had once succeeded would succeed again, and he paid the
penalty of his lack of originality.'
'And the point of all this?' sneered Giraud.
'That, when you have two crimes precisely similar in design
and execution, you find the same brain behind them
both. I am looking for that brain, Monsieur Giraud, and I
shall find it. Here we have a true clue- a psychological clue.
You may know all about cigarettes and match ends, Monsieur
Giraud, but I, Hercule Poirot, know the mind of man.'
Giraud remained singularly unimpressed.
'For your guidance,' continued Poirot, 'I will also advise
you of one fact which might fail to be brought to your
notice. The wristwatch of Madame Renauld, on the day
following the tragedy, had gained two hours.'
Giraud stared.
'Perhaps it was in the habit of gaining?'
'As a matter of fact, I am told it did.'
'Very well, then.'
'All the same, two hours is a good deal,' said Poirot softly.
'Then there is the matter of the footprints in the flower-bed.'
He nodded his head towards the open window. Giraud
took two eager strides, and looked out.
'But I see no footprints?'
'No,' said Poirot, straightening a little pile of books on
a table. 'There are none.'
For a moment an almost.murderous rage obscured
Giraud's face. He took two strides towards his tormentor,
but at that moment the salon door was opened, and Mar-chaud
announced:
'Monsieur Stoaor, the secretary, has just arrived from
England. May he enter?'

78


CHAPTER 10

GABRIEL $TONOR

Tm; man who now entered the room was a strildng figure.
Very tall, with a well-knit, athletic frame and a deeply
bronzed flee and neck, he dominated the assembly. Even
Giraud seemed anaemic beside him. When I knew him better
I realized that Gabriel Stonor was quite an unusual personality.
English by birth, he had knocked about all over
the world. He had shot big game in Africa, travelled in
Korea, ranched in California, and traded in the South Sea
islands.
His unerring eye picked out M. Hautet.
'The examining magistrate in charge of the case? Pleased
to meet you, sir. This is a terrible business. How's Mrs
Benauld? Is she bearing up fairly well? It must have been
an awful shock to her.'
'Terrible, terrible' said M. Hautet. 'Permit me to introduce
Monsieur Bex, our commissary of police Monsieur
Giraud of the Sfiret& This gentleman is Monsieur Hercule
Poirot. Mr Renauld sent for him, but he arrived too late to
do anything to avert the tragedy. A friend of Monsieur
Poirot's, Captain Hastings.'
Stonor looked at Poirot with some interest.
'Sent for you did he?'
'You did not know, then, that Monsieur Renauld contemplated
calling in a detective?' interposed M. Bex.
'No, I didn't. But it doesn't surprise me a bit.'
'Why?'
'Because the old man was rattled. I don't know what it
was all about. He didn't confide in me. We wexen't on those
terms. But rattled he was- and badly.'


'H'm!' said I'll Hautet. 'But you have no notion of the
cause ? '
'That's what I said, sir.'
'You will pardon me, Monsieur Stonor, but we must begin
with a fiw formalities. Your name?'
' Gabriel Stonor.'
'How long ago gas it that you became secretary to
Monsieur Benauld?'
'About two years ago, when he first arrived from South
America. I met him through a mutual friend, and he offered
me the post. A thundering good boss he was too.'
' Did he talk to you much about his life in South America ?'
'Yes, a good bit.'
'Do you know if he was ever in Santiago ?'
'Several times, I believe.'
'He never mentioned any special incident that occurred
there - anything that might have provoked some vendetta
against him?'
' Never.'
'Did he speak of any secret kaz he had acquired while
sojourning there?'
'Not that I can remember. Bug for all that, there was a
mystery about him. I've never heard him speak of his boyhood,
for instance, or of any incident prior to his arrival in
South America. He was a French-Canadian by birth, I believe,
but I've never heard him speak of his life in Canada.
He could shut up like a clam if he li?d '
'So, as far as you know, he had; eqes, and you can
give us no clue as to any secret to..,m ;iS51tain }
	ession of which
he might have been murdered ?'

'That's so.'
'Monsieur Stonor, have you ever heard the name of
Duveen in connexion with Monsieur Benauld?'
'Duveen. Duveen.' He tried the name over thoughtfully.
'I don't think I have. And yet it seems familiar.'
8o


'Do you know a lady a Mend of Mor'eur Renauld's
whose Christian name is Belh?'
Again Mr Stonor shook his head.
'Bella Duveen? Is that the full name? It's curious. I'm
sure I know it. But for the moment I can't remember in what
connexion.
The magistrate coughed.
'You understand, Monsieur Stonor- the case is like this. There mut be no reservations. You might, perhaps, through
a feeling of consideration for Madame Renauld - for whom,
I gather, you have a great esteem and affection- you might - in fact!' said M. Hautet, getting rather tied up in his sentence
'there must absolutely be no reservations.'
Stonor stared at him, a dawning light of comprehension in
his eyes.
'I don't quite get you' he said gently. 'Where does Mrs
Benauld come in? I've an immense respect and affection for
that lady; she's a very wonderful and unusual .type, but I
don't quite see how my reservations or otherwise, could
affect her?'
'lot if this Bella Duveen should prove to have been
something more than a friend to her husband ?'
'Ah!' said Stonor. 'I get you now. But I'll bet my bottom
dollar that you're wrong. The old man never so much as
looked at a petticoat. He just adored his own wife. They
were the most devoted couple I know.'
M. Hautet shook his head gently.
'Monsieur Stonor;'-TM hold.absolute proof- a love-letter
written by this Bella toM컉sieur Renauld, accusing him of
having tired of her. Moreover, we have further proof that,
at the time of his death, he was carrying on an intrigue with
a Frenchwoman, a Madame Daubreuil, who rents the adjoining
Villa.'
The secretary's eyes narrowed.
'Hold on sir. You're barking up the wrong tree. I knew


Paul Renatfid. What you've just been saying is plumb impossible.
ere's some other explanation.'
The malgistrate shrugged his shoulders.
'What other explanation could there be?'
'What leads you to think it was a love affair?' 'Madame Daubreuil was in the habit of visiting him here
in the everings. Also, since Monsieur Benauld came to the
Villa Genevieve, Madame Daubreuil has paid large sums of
money into the bank in notes. In all, the amount totals four
thousand 1ounds of your English money.'
'I guess that's right,' said Stonor quietly. 'I transmitted
him those sums in notes at his request. But it wasn't an

'what else could it be?'
'Blackmail,' said Stonor sharply, bringing down his hand
with a slam on the table. 'That's what it was.'
'Ah!' cried the magistrate, shaken in spite of himself.
'Blackm,ail,' repeated Stonor. 'The old man was being
bled - and at a good rate too. Four thousand in a couple of
months. Wlaewl I told you just now there was a mystery
about Benauld. Evidently this Madame Daubreuil knew
enough of it to put the screw on.'
'It is possible,' the commissary cried exaltedly. 'De.cidedly
it is possible.'
'Possible?' roared Stonor. 'It's certain. Tell me, have
you asked Benauld about this love-affair stunt of
yours?'
'No, moo. sieur. We did not wish to occasion her any distress
if it co,Id reasonably be avoided.'
'Distress? Why, she'd laugh in your face. I tell you, she
and Renauld were a couple in a hundred.'
'Ah, that reminds me of another point,' said M. Hautet.
'Did Monsieur Benauld take you into his confidence at all
as to the dispositions of his will?'
'I know all about it- took it to the lawyers for him after


he'd drawn it out. I can give you the --ame of his solicitors
if you want to see it. They've got it there. Quite simple.
Half in trust to his wife for her lifetime, the oth half to his
son. A few legacies. I rather think he left me a thc;usand.'
'When was this will drawn up?'
'Oh, about a year and a h:!le ago.'
'World it surprise you very mucl Monsieur Stonor, to
hear that Monsieur Renauld had made another will, less than
a fortnight ago?'
Stonor was obviously very much surprised.
'I'd no idea of it. What's it like?'
'The whole of his vast fortune is left unreservedly to his
wife. There is no mention of his son.'
Mr Stonor gave vent to a prolonged whistle.
'I call that rather rough on th lack His mother adores him
of course, but to the world at large it looks rather like a
want of confidence on his father's part. It will be rather galling
to his pride. Still, it all goes t prove what I told you,
that Benauld and his wife were on first-rate eens.'
'Quite so, quite so; said M. Hautet. 'It is possible we
shall have to revise our ideas on several points. We have,
o즓ourse, cabled to Santiago, and are expectinga reply from
there any minute. In all probability, everything will then be perfectly clear and straightforward. On the other hand,
your suggestion of blackmail is true, Madame Daubreuil
ought to be able to give us valuable information.'
Poirot interjected a remark:
'Monsieur Stonor, the EnglLsh clumfFeur, Masters, had he
been long with Monsieur Renauld?'
' Over a year.'
'Have you any idea whether he has ever been in South

'I'm quite sure he hasn't. Before coming: to M. Renauld
he had been for many years with some people in Gloucester-shire
whom I know welL'


'In fact, you can answer for him as being above suspidon?'
'Absolutely.'
Poirot seemed somewhat crestfallen.
Meanwhile the magistrate had summoned Marchaud.
'My compliments to Madame Renautd, and I should he
glad to speak to her for a few minutes. Beg her not to disturb
herself. I will wait upon her upstairs,'
Marchaud saluted and disappeared.
We waited some minutes, and then, to our surprise, the
door opened, and Mrs Renauld, deathly pale in her heavy
mourning, entered the room.
M. Hautet brought forward a chair, uttering vigorous
protestations, and she thanked him with a smile. Stonor was holding one hand of hers in his with an eloquent sympathy.
Words evidently failed him. Mrs Renauld turned to M.
Hautet.
'You wish to ask me something?'
'With your permission, madame. I understand your husband
was a French-Canadian by birth. Can you tell me anything
of his youth or upbringing?'
She shook her head.
'My husband was always very reticent about himself,
monsieur. He came from the North-West, I know, but I
fancy that he had an unhappy childhood, for he never cared
to speak of that time. Our life was lived entirely in the present
and the furore.'
'Was there any mystery in his past life?'
Mrs Renauld smiled a little and shook her head.
'Nothing so romanti I am sur% monsieur.' M. Hautet also smiled.
'Trues we must not permit ourselves to get melodramatic.
There is one thing more ---' He hesitated.
Stonor broke in impetuously:
'They've got an extraordinary idea into their head% Mrs


Renauld. They actually fancy that Mr Renauld was carrying
on an intrigue with a Madame Daubreuil who it seems, lives
next door.'

The scarlet colour flamed into Mrs Renauld's cheeks. She
flung her head up, then bit her lip, her face quivering. Stonor
stood looking at her in astonishment but M. Bex leaned
forward and said gently:

 We regret to cause you pain, madame, but have you any
reason to believe that Madame Daubreuil was your hus-band's
mistress ?'

With a sob of anguish, Mrs Renauld buried her face in her
hands. Her shoulders heaved convulsively. At last she lifted

her head and-said brokenly:

'She may have been.'

Never, in all my life, have I seen anything to equal the
blank amazement on Stonor's face. He was thoroughly taken
aback.


I::RAPTRR 11


JACK RENAULD


WH,? the next development of the conversation would
have been I cannot say, for at that moment the door was
thrown open violently and a tall young man strode into the
room.

Just for a moment I had the uncanny sensation that the
dead man had come to life again. Then I realized that this
dark head was untouched with grey, and that, in point of
fact, it was a mere boy who now burst in among us with
so little ceremony. He went straight to Mrs Renauld with an

impetuosity that took no heed of the presence of others.

 Mother!'

'Jackl' With a cry she folded him in her arms. 'My dear-estl
But what brings you here? You were to sail on the
Atrffora from Cherbourg two days ago?' Then, suddenly
recalling to herself the presence of others, she turned with a
certain dignity: 'My son messieurs.'

'Ahal' said M. Hautet, acknowledging the young man's
bow. 'So you did not sail on the/In.fora?'

'No, monsieur. As I was about to explain, the At, ora
was detained twenty-four hours through engine trouble. I
should have sailed last night instead of the night before, but,
happening to buy an evening papers I saw in it an account of
the - the awful tragedy that had befallen us --' His voice
broke and the tears came into his eyes. 'My poor father- my
poor, poor father.'

Staring at him like one in a dream, Mrs Renauld repeated:
'So you did not sail?' And then, with a gesture of infinite
weariness, she murmured as though to herself: 'After all, it
does not matter- now.'


86


'Sit down Monsieur Renauld I beg of you,' said M.
Hautet indicating a chair. 'My sympathy for you is profound.
It must have been a terrible shock to you to learn the
news as you did. However, it is most fortunate that you were
prevented from sailing. I am in hopes that you may be able
to give us just the information we need to clear up this
mystery.'
'I am at your disposal, monsieur. Ask me any questions
you phase.'
'To begin with, I understand that this journey was being
undertaken at your father's request?'
' Quite so, monsieur. I received a telegram bidding me to
proceed without delay to Buenos Ayres, and from thence
the Andes to Valparaiso, and on to Santiago.'
'Ah! And the object of this journey?'
'I have no idea.'
'that?'
'No. See, here is the telegram.'
The magistrate took it and read it aloud:
' "Proceed .immediately Cherbourg embark ,4norcsailing
tonight Buenos Ayres. Ultimate destination Santiago.
Further instructions will await you Buenos Ayres. Do not
fail Matter is of utmost importance. Rs,u.t." And there
had been no previous correspondence on the matter?'
Jack Renauld shook his head.
'That is the only intimation of any kind. I knew, of
course, that my father, having lived so long out there, had
neces---rily many interests in South America. But he had
neve mooted any suggestion of sending me out.'
'You have, of course, been a good deal in South America,
M. Renauld?'
'I was there as a child. But I was educated in Englan&, and
spent most of my holidays in that country, so, I really knove
far less of South America than might be supposed. You se,
the War broke out when I was seventeen.'
87


'You served in the English Flying Corps, did you not?'
'Yes, monsieur.'
M. Hautet nodded his head and proceeded with his in--quiries
along the, by now, well-known lines. In respome,
Jack Renauld declared definitely that he knew nothing of any
enmity his father might have incurred in the city of Santiago
or elsewhere in the South American continent, that he had
noticed no change in his father's manner of late, and that he
had never heard him refer to a secret. He had regarded the
mission to South America as connected with business interests.
As M. Hautet paused for a minute, the quiet voice of
Giraud broke in:
'I should like to put a few questions of my own, Monsieur
le juge.'
'By all means, Monsieur Giraud, if you wish,' said the
magistrate coldly.
Giraud edged his chair a little nearer to the table.
'Were you on good terms with your father, Monsieur
Benauld?'
'Certainly I was,' returned the lad haughtily.
'You assert that positively?'
Yes?
'No little disputes, eh?'
Jack shrugged his shoulders. 'Everyone may have a
difference of opinion now and them'
' Quite so, quite so. But, if anyone were to assert that you
had a violent quan with your father on the eve of your
departure for Paris, that person, without doubg would be
lying?'
I could not but admire the ingenuity of Giraud. His
boast, 'I know everything,' had been no idle one. Jack
Renauld was dearly disconcerted by the question.
'We - we did have an argument,' he admitted.
'Ah, an argumentl In the course of that argument, did
88


you use this phrase: "When you are dead I can do as I
please"?'
'I may have done,' muttered the other. 'I don't know.'
'In response to that, did your father say: "But I am not
dead yet!"? To which you responded: "I wish you wexel"'
The boy made no answer. His hands fiddled nervously
with the things on the table in from of him.
'I must request an answer, please, Monsieur Renauld,'
said Giraud sharply.
With an angry exclamation, the boy s,ept a heavy paperknife
to the floor.
' What does it matter? You might as well know. Yes, I did
quarrel with my father. I dare say I said all those things - I
was so angry I cannot even reraember what I saidl I was
furious - I could almost have killed him at that moment there,
make the most of that!' He leant back in his chair,
flushed and defiant.
Giraud smiled, then, moving his chair hack a little, said:
'That is all. You would, without doubt, prefer to continue
the interrogatory, Monsieur Hautet.'
'Ah, yes, exactly,' said M. Hautet. 'And what was the
subject of your quarrel?'
'That I decline to state.'
M. Hautet sat up in his chair.
'Monsieur Renauld, it is not permitted to trifle with the
law? he thundered. 'What was the subject of the quarrel?'
Young Renauld remained silent, his boyish face sullen
and overcast. But another voice spoke, imperturbable and
calm, the voice of Hercule Poirot:
'I will inform you, if you like, monsieur.'
'You know?'
' Certainly I know. The subject of the quarrel vras Mademoiselle
Marthe Daubreuil.'
Renauld sprang round, startled. The magistrate leaned
forvrard.


'Is that so, monsieur?'
Jack Renauld bowed his head.
'Yes,' he admitted. 'I love Mademoiselle Daubreuil, and I
wish to marry her. When I informed my father of the fact he
flew at once into a violent rage. Naturally, I could not stand
hearing the girl I loved insulted, and I, too, lost my temper.'
M. Hautet looked across at Mrs Renauld.
'You were aware of this - attachment, madame?'
'I feared it,' she replied simply.
'Mother,' cried the boy. 'You too! Marthe is as good as
she is beautiful. What can you have against her?'
'I have nothing against Mademoiselle Daubreuil in any
way. But I should prefer you to marry an Englishwoman, or
if a Frenchwoman, not one who has a mother of doubtful
antecedentsl'
Her rancour against the older woman showed plainly in
her voice, and I could well understand that it must have been
a bitter blow to her when her only son showed signs of falling
in love with the daughter of her rival.
Mrs Benauld continued, addressing the magistrate:
'I ought, perhaps, to have spoken to my husband on the
subject, but I hoped that it was only a boy and girl flirtation
which would blow over all the quicker if no notice was taken
of it. I blame myself now for my silence, but my husband,
as I told you, had seemed so anxious and careworn, different
altogether from his normal self, that I was chiefly concerned
not to give him any additional worry.'
M. Hautet nodded.
"When you informed your father of your intentions towards
Mademoiselle Daubreuil,' he resumed, 'he was surprised?'
'He seemed completely taken aback. Then he ordered me
peremptorily to dismiss any such idea from my mind. He
would never give his consent to such a marriage. Nettled, I
demanded what he had against Mademoiselle Daubreuil. To


that he could give no satisfactory reply, but spoke in slighting
terms of the mystery surrounding the lives of the mother
and daughter. I answered that I was marrying Marthe and
not her antecedents, but he shouted me down with a peremptory
refusal to discuss the .matter in any way. The whole
thing must be given up. The injustice and highhandedness
of it all maddened me - especially since he himself always
seemed to go out of his way to be attentive to the Daubreuils
and was always suggesting that they should be asked to the
house. I lost my head, and we quarrelled in earnest. My
father reminded me that I was entirely dependent on him,
and it must have been in answer to that that I made the remark
about doing as I pleased after his death --'
Poirot interrupted with a quick question:
'You were aware, then, of the terms of your father's
will?'
'I knew that he had left half his fortune to me, the other
half in trust for my motaher, to come to me at her death,'
replied the lad.
'Proceed with your story,' said the magistrate.
'After that we shouted at each other in sheer rage, until
I suddenly realized that I was in danger of missing my train
to Paris. I had to run for the station, still in a white heat of
fury. However, once well away, I calmed down. I va'ore to
Marthe telling her what had happened, and her reply
soothed me still further. She pointed out to me that we had
only to be steadfast, and any opposition was boUnd to give
way at last. Our affection for each other must be trim and
proved and when my parents realized that it was no light
infatuation on my part they would doubtless relent towards
us. Of course, to her, I had not dwelt on my father's prindpal
objection to the match. I soon saw that I should do my
cause no good by violence.'
'To pass to another matter, are you acquainted with the
name of Duveen, Monsieur Renauld ?'


'Dmteen' said Jack. 'Duveen?' He leant forward and
slowly picked up the paper-knife he had swept from the
table. As he lifted his head. his eyes met the watching ones of
Giraud. 'Duveen? No, I caI't say I do.'

'Will you read this letter, Monsieur Renauld? And tell
me if you have any idea as to who the person was who
addressed it to your father.'

Jack Benauld took the letter and read it through, the
colour mounting in his face as he did so.

'Addressed to my father?' The emotion and indignation
in his tones were evident.

'Yes. We found it ia the pocket of Ms coat.'

'Does --' He hesitated, throwing the merest fraction of a
glance towards his mother.

The magistrate understood.

'As yet- no. Can you give us any due as to the writer?'
'I have no idea whatsoever.'
M. Hautet sighed.

'A most mysterious case. Ah, well, I suppose we can now
rule out the letter altogether. Let me see where were we?
Oh, the weapom I fear this may give you pain, Monsieur
Renauld. I understand it was a present from you to your
mother. Very sad - very distressing w'

Jack Benauld leaned forward. His face, which had flushed
during the perusal of the letter, 3vas now deadly white.

' Do you mean- that it was with an aeroplane wire paper-cutter
that my father was- was killed? But it's impossiblet
A little thing like that!'

'Alas, Monsieur Benauld, it is only too truel An ideal
little tool, I fear. Sharp and easy to handle.'

'Where is it? Can I see it? Is it still in the- the body?'
'Oh no, it has been removed. You would like to see it?
To make sure ? It would be as xvell, perhaps, though madame
has already identified it. Still- Monsieur Bex, might I
trouble you?'


'Certainly. I will fetch it immediately.'
'Would it not be better to take Monsieur Renauld to the
shed?' suggested Giraud smoothly. 'Without doubt he
would wish to see his father's body.'
The boy made a shivering gesture of negation, and the
magistrate, always disposed to cross Giraud whenever
possible, replied:
'But no - not at present. Monsieur Bex will be so kind as
to bring it to us here.'
The commissary left the room. $tonor crossed to Jack and
wrung him by the hand. Poirot had risen, and was adjusting
a pair of candlesticks that struck his trained eye as being a
shade askew. The magistrate was reading the mysterious
love-letter through a last time, clinging desperately to his
first theory of jealousy and a stab in the back.
Suddenly the door burst open and the commissary rushed
in.
'Monsieur le juge! Monsieur le juget'
'But yes. What is it?'
'The daggerl It is gonel'
'What- gone?'
'Vanished,, Disappeared. The glass jar that contained it
is emptyt'
'What?' I cried. 'Impossible. Why, only this morning I
saw --' The words died on my tongue.
But the attention of the entire room was diverted to me.
'What is that you say?' cried the commissary. 'This morning?'
'I saw it there this morning,' I said slowly. 'About aa
hour and a half ago, to be accurate.'
'You went to the shed, then? How did you get the key?' 'I asked the sergent de ville for it.' 'And you went there? Why?'
I hesitated, but in the end I decided that the only thing to
do was to make a clean breast of it.


			'Monsieur Hautet,' I said, 'I have committed a grave

	fault, for which I must crave your indulgence.'

			'Proceed, monsieur.'

			'The fact of the matter is,' I said, wishing myself any
	where else but where I was, 'that I met a young lady, an

	acquaintance of mine. She displayed a great desire to see

	everything that was to be seen, and I- well, in short, I took

	the key to shiw her the body.'

		'Ah!' cried the magistrate indignantly. 'But it is a grave

	fault you have committed there, Captain Hastings. It is

	a/together most irregular. You should not have permitted

	yourself this folly.'

	'I know,' I said meekly. 'Nothing that you can say could

	be too severe, monsieur.'

	'You did not invite this lady to come here?'

	'Certainly not. I met her quite by accident. She is an

	English lady who happens to be staying in Merlinville,

	though I was not aware of that until my unexpected meeting

	with her.'

	'Well, well,' said the magistrate, softening. 'It was most

	irregular, but the lady is without doubt young and beautiful.

	What it is to be young!' And he sighed sentimentally.

	But the commissary, less romantic and more practica/,

	took up the tale:

	'But did you not reclose and lock the door when you de
	parted?'

	'That's just it,' I said slowly. 'That's what I blame my
	self for so terribly. My friend was upset at the sight. She

nearly fainted. I got hex some brandy and water, and after
wards insisted on accompanying her back to the town. In

the excitement I forgot to relock the door. I only did so when

I got back to the Villa.'

	'Then for twenty minutes at least--' said
	slowly. He stopped,
	the comrn

	'F-ctly,' I said.

94


' ""' 'Twenty minutes,' mused the commissary.
'It is deplorable,' said M. Hautet, his sternness of manner
returning. 'Without precedent.'
Suddenly another voice spoke.
'You find it deplorable?' asked Giraud.
'Certainly I do.'
'I find it admirable!' said the other imperturbably.
This unexpected ally quite bewildered me.
'Admirable, Monsieur Giraud?' asked the magistrate,
studying him cautiously out of the corner of his eye.
' Precisely.'
'And why ?'
' Because we know now that the assassin, or an accomplice
of the assassin, has been near the Villa only an hour ago.
It will be strange if, with that knowledge, we do not shortly
lay hands upon him.' There was a note of menace in his
voice. He continued: 'He risked a good deal to gain possession
of that dagger. Perhaps he feared that fingerprints
might be discovered on it.'
Poirot turned to Bex.
' You said there were none?'
Giraud shrugged his shoulders.
'Perhaps he could not be sure.'
Poirot looked at him.
'You are wrong, Monsieur Giraud. The assassin wore
gloves. So he must have been sure.'
'I do not say it was the assassin himself. It may have been
an accomplice who was not aware of that fact.'
The magistrate's clerk was gathering up the papers on the
table. M. Hautet addressed us:
'Our work here is finished. Perhaps, Monsieur Renauld,
you will listen while your evidence is read over to you. I
have purposely kept all the proceedings as informal as possible.
I have been called original in my methods, but I maintain
that there is much to be said for originality. The caae is

9


now in the clever hands of the renowned Monsieur Giraud.
He will without doubt distinguish himself. Indeed, I wonder
that he has not already laid his hands upon the murderersl
Madame, again let me assure you of my heartfelt sympathyl
Messieurs, I wish you all good day.' And, accompanied by
his clerk and the commissary, he took his departure.

Poirot tugged out that large turnip ora watch of his and
observed the time.

'Let us return to the hote/for lunch, my friend,' he said.
'And you shall recount to me in full the indiscretions of this
morning. No one is observing us. We need make no
adieux.'

We went quietly out of the room. The examining magis-trate
had just driven off in his car. I was going down the
steps when Poirot's voice arrested me:

 One little moment, my friend.' Dexterously he whipped
out his yard measure and proceeded, quite solemnly, to
measure an overcoat hanging in the hall, from the collar to
the hem. I had not seen it hanging there before, and g/essed
flat it belonged to either Mr Stonor or Jack Renauld.

Then, with a little satisfied grunt, Poirot returned the
measure to his pocket and followed me out into the open air.


CHAPTER


POIROT ELUCIDATES CERTAIN POINTS


'Wine did you measure that overcoat?' I asked, with some
curiosity, as we walked down the hot white road at a
leisurely pace.

'Parbleu/to see how long it was,' replied my friend im-perturbably.

I was vexed. Poirot's incurable habit of making a mystery
out of nothing never failed to irritate me. I relapsed into
silence, and followed a train of thought of my own.
Although I had not noticed them specially at the time, cer-tain
words Mrs Renauld had addressed to her son now re-curred
to me, fraught with a new significance. 'So you did
not sail?' she had said, and then had added: '.4jer all, it does
not atter- now.'

What had she meant by that? The words were enig-matical
- significant. Was it possible that she knew more
than we supposed? She had' denied all knowledge of the
mysterious mission with which her husband was to have
entrusted his son. But was she really less ignorant than she
pretended? Could she enlighten us if she chose, and was her
silence part of a carefully thought out and preconceived
plan?

The more I thought about, it, the more I was con-vinced
that I. was right. Mrs Benauld knew more than she
chose to tell. In her surprise at seeing her son, she had
momentarily betrayed herself. I felt convinced that she
knew, if not the assassins, at least the motive for the assassi-nation.
But some very powerful considerations must keep
her silent.

'You think profoundly, my friend,' remarked Poirot,


breaking in upon my reflections. 'What is it that intrigues
you so?'
I told him, sure of my ground, though feeling expectant
that he would ridicule my suspicions. But to my surprise
he nodded thoughtfully.
'You are quite right, Hastings. From the beginning I
have been sure that she was keeping something back. At
first I suspected her, if not of inspiring, at least of conniving
at the crime.'
'You suspected her?' I cried.
'But certainly. She benefits enormously- in fact, by this
new will, she is the only person to benefit. So, from the
start, she was singled out for attention. You may have
t/ced that I took an early opportunity of examining her
wrists. I wished to see whether there was any possibility
that she had gagged and bound herself. 즜en, I saw at
once that there was no fake, the cords had actually been
drawn so tight as to cut into the flesh. That ruled out the
possibility of her having committed the crime single-handed.
But it was still possible for her to have connived at it, or to
have been the instigator with an accomplice. Moreover, the
story, as she told it, was singularly familiar to me- the
masked men that she could not recognize, the mention of
"the secret" - I had heard, or read, all these things before.
Another little detail confirmed my belief that she was not
speaking the truth. The wrlstwatc]$ I-Iasting tire wristwatch
.t '
Again that wristwatch! Poirot was eyeing me curiously.
'You see, rnon ami? You comprehend?'
'No,' I replied with some ill burnout. 'I neither see nor
comprehend. You make all these confounded mysteries
and it's useless asking you to explain. You alway like keel
ing something up your sleeve to the last minute.'
'Do not enrage yourself, my friend,' said Poimt, with a
smile. I will explain ffyou wish. But not a word to Giraud,

98


c'es? entendu? lie treats me as an old one of no importance! We shall see I In common fairness I gave him a hint. If he
does not choose to act upon it, that is his own lookout.'
I assured Poirot that he could rely upon my discretion. 'C'est bien I Let us then employ our little grey cells. Tell
me, my friend, at what time, according to you, did the
tragedy take place?'
'Why, at two o'clock or thereabouts,' I said, astonished.
'You remember, Mrs Renauld told us that she heard the
clock strike while the men were in the room.'
'Exactly, and on the strength of that, you, the examining
magistrate, Bex, and everyone else, accept the time without
further question. But I, Hercule Poirot, say that Madame
Renauld lied. The crime took place at leat two hours earlier.' 'But the doctors --'
' They dechred, after examination of e body, that death
had taken place between ten and seven hours previously. 21fon ami, for some reason it was imperative that the crime
should seem to have taken place later than it actually did.
You have read of a smashed watch or dock recording the
exact hour of a crime? So that the time should not rest on
Madame Benauld's testimony alone, someone moved on
the hands of that wristwatch to two o'clock, and then dashed
it violently to the ground. But, as is often the case, they
feated their own object. The glass was smashed, but the
mechanism of the watch was uninjured. It was a most disastrous
manceuvre on their part, for it at once drew my attention
to two points - tint, that Madame Benauld was lying;
secondly, that there must be some vital reason for the postponement
of the time.'
'Bm what reason could there be?'
'Ah, that is the quesfionl There we have the whole
mystery. As yet, I cannot explain it. There is only one idea
that presents itself to me as having a possible connexion.'
'And that is ?'


'The last train left Merlinville at seventeen minutes past
twelve.'
I followed it out slowly.
'So that, the crime apparently taking place some two
hours later, anyone leaving by that train would have an
unimpeachable alibi!'
'Perfect, Hastings! You have it!.'
I sprang up.
'But we must inquire at the station! Surely they cannot
have failed to notice two foreigners who left by that train!
We must go there at once!'
'You think so, Hastings?'
'Of course. Let us go there now.'
Poirot restrained my ardour with a light touch upon the
at'Ill.

	Go by .all means if you wish, tnon aml- but if you go, I
should not ask for particulars of two foreigners.
I stared and he said rather impatiently:
'La,/, you do not believe all that rigmarole, do you?
The masked men and all the rest ofcette fiistoireld,t'
His words took me so much aback, that I hardly knew
how to respond. He went on serenely:
' You heard me say to Girand, did you not. that all the
tails of this crime were familiar to me? Eh $1en, that presupposes
one of two things, either the brain that planned the
first crime also planned this one, or else an account read ora caus clbre unconsciously remained in our assassin's memory
and prompted the details. I shall be able to pronounce
definitely on that after m' He broke off.
I was revolving sundry matters in my mind.
'But Mr Benanld's letter? It distinctly mentions a secret
and Santiago!'
'Undoubtedly there was a secret in Monsieur Renauld's
life- there can be no doubt of that. On the other hand, the
word Santiago, to my mind, is a red herring, dragged conI00



1

gn;:lly acres the track to put us off the scent, h is possible
that it was used in the same way on Monsieur Renauld, to
keep him from directing his suspicions to a quarter nearer at
hand. Oh be assm Hastings the clanger that threatened
him was not in Santiago, it was near at hand, in France.'
He spoke so gravely, and with such assurance, that I could
not fail to be convinced. But I essayed one obiection:
'And the match and cigarette end found near the body?
What of hem?'
A light of pure enjoyment lit up Poirot's face.
'Plantedl Deliberately planted there for Giraud or one
of his tribe to fred! Ah, he is smart, Giraud, he can do his
tricks! So can a good retriever dog. He comes in so pleased
with himself. For hout he has crawled on his stomach. "See what I have found," he says. And then again to me: "What
do you see here?" Me, I answ with profound and deep
truth, "l%thing." And Girand, the great Giraud, he laughs,
he thinks to himse"0t,6 he is imbecileo this old one!" But
we small see .... '
But my mind had reverted to the main facts.
'Then all thi- story of the masked men
'Is false.'
 What really happened ?'
Poirot shrugged his ahouldera.
'One person could tell us- Madame Renauld. But she
will not speak. Threats and enmmtiea would not move her.
A remarkable woman that, Hastings. I recognized as soon
as I saw her that I had to deal with a woman of unusual char-actor.
At fut, as I told you, I was inclined to auspect her of
being concerned in the crime. Afterwards I altered my
opinion.'
'What made you do that ?'
'Her spontsncou and genuine grief at the sight of her
husband's body. I could swear that the agony in that cry of
hera was genuiae.'


'Yes,' I said thoughtfully, 'one cannot mistake these
things.'

'I beg your pardon, my friend - one can always be mis-taken.
Regard a great actress, does not her acting of grief
carry you away and impress you with its reality? No, how-ever
strong my own impression and belief, I needed other
evidence before I allowed myself to be satisfied. The great
criminal can be a great actor. I base my certainty in this case
not upon my own impression, but upon the undeniable fact
that Madame Renauld actually fainted. I turned up her eye-lids
vnd felt her pulse. There was no deception - the swoon
was genuine. Therefore I was satisfied that her anguish was
real and not assumed. Besides, a small addifio.nal point with-out
interest, it was unnecessary for Madame Renauld to ex-hibit
unrestrained grief. She had had one paroxysm on
learnin, g of her husband's death, and there would be no need
for her to imulate another such a violent one on beholding
his body. bio, Madame Renauld was not her husband's mur-deress.
But why has she lied ? She lied about the wristwatch,
she lied about the masked men-,he lied about a third thing.
Tell me, Hastings, what is your explanation of the open
door?'

'Well,' I said, rather embarrassed, 'I suppose it was an
oversight. They forgot to shut it.'

Poirot shook his head, and sighed.

'That is the explanation of Giraud. It does not satisfy me.
There is a meaning behind that open door which for the
moment I cannot fathom. One thing I am fairly sure of-they
did not leave through the door. They left by the win

'What?'

'
Precisely.'

'But there were no footmarks in the flower-bed under-neath
.'

'NO - and t]ere oug/t to have been. Listen, Hastings. The


I02


gardener, Augus as you heard him say, plan both
those beds the preceding afternoon. In the one theare plentififi impressions of his big hobnailed boots - in the
other, none! You see? Someone had passed that way, someone
who, to obliterate their footprints, smoothed over the
surface of the bed with a rake.'
'Where did they get a rake?'
'Where they got the spade and the gardening gloves,'
said Poirot impatiently. 'There is no difficulty about
that.'
'What makes you think that they left that way though?
Surely it is more probable that they entered by the window,
and left by the door?'
'That is possibl of course. Yet I have a strong idea that
they left by the window.'
' I think you are wrong.'
' Perhaps, mon ami.'
I mused, thinking over the new field of conjLK'ture that
Poirot's deductions had opened up to me. I recalled my
wonder at his cryptic allusion to the flower-bed and the
wristwatch. His remarks had seemed so meaningless at the
moment, and now, for the first time I realized how remarkably,
from a few slight .incidents, he had unravelled much of
the mystery that surrounded the case. I paid a belated homage
to my friend.
'In the meantime,' I said, considering, 'although we
know a great deal more than we did we are no nearer to
solving the mystery of who killed Mr Renauld.'
'No,' said Poirot cheerfully. 'In fact we are a great deal
farther off.'
The fact seemed to afford him such peculiar satisfaction
that I gazed at him in wonder. He met my eye and smiled.
Suddenly a light burst upon me.
'Poirotl Mrs Renauldl I see it now. She must be shielding
somebody.'


From the quiemess with which Poirot received my
mark, I could se that the idea had a/ready occurred to him.

'Yes,' he said thoughtfully. 'Shielding someone- or
screening someone. One of e two.'

Then, as we entered our hotel he enjoined silence on me
with a gesture.


CHAPTER 13

THE
	GIRL WITH THE ANXIOUS EYES

Wv. lunched with an excellent appetite. For a while we
ate in silence, and then Poirot observed maliciously: 'Eh blen.t And your indiscrefionsl You recount them
not?'
I felt myself blushing.
'Oh, you mean this morning?' I endeavoured to adopt
a tone of absolute nonchalance.
But I was no match for Po[rot. In a very few minutes he
had extracted the whole story from me, his eyes twinkling as
he did so.
'Tien.t A story of the most romantic. What is her name,
this charming young lady?'
I had to confess that I did not know.
'Still more romantic! The first rencontre in the train from
Paris, the second here. Journeys end in lovers' meetings, is
not that the saying?'
'Don't be an ass, Poirot.'
'Yesterday it was Mademoiselle Daubreuil, today it is
Mademoiselle- Cinderella! Decidedly you have the heart of
a Turk, Hastings! You should establish a hareml'
'It's all very well to rag me. Mademoiselle Daubreuil is a
very beautiful girl, and I do admire her immensely - I don't
mind admitting it. The other's nothing- I don't suppose I
shall ever see her again.'
'You do not propose to see the lady again?'
His last words were almost a question, and I was aware of
the sharpness with which he darted a glance at me. And before
my eyes, writ large in letters of fire, I saw the words
'Hotel du Phare', and I heard again her voice saying, ' Come


and look me up', and my own answering with ernt, resse, nient 'I wilL'
I answered Poirot lightly enough:
'She asked me to look her up, but, of course, I shan't.'
' Why "of course" ?'
' Well, I don't want to.'
'Mademoiselle Cinderella is staying at the Hotel d'Angle-
terre you told me, did you not?'
'lNo. Hotel du Phare.'
'True, I forgot.'
A moment's misgiving shot across my mind. Surely I had
never mentioned any hotel to Poirot. I looked across at him
and felt reassured. He was cutting his bread into neat little
squai'es, completely absorbed in his task. He must have
fancied I had told him where the girl was staying.
We had coffee outside facing the sea. Poirot smoked one
of his tiny cigarettes, and then drew his watch from his
pocket.
'The train to Paris leaves at z.25,' he observed. 'I should
be starting.'
' Paris?' I cried.
'That is what I said, mon arnL' 'You are going to Paris? But why?'
He replied very seriously:
'To look for the murderer of Monsieur Benauld.'
' You think he is in Pards ?'
'I am quite certain that he is not. Nevertheless, it is there
that I must look for him. You do not understand, but I will
explain it all to you in good time. Believe me, this journey to
Paris is necessary. I shall not be away long. In all probability
I shall return tomorrow. I do not propose that you should
accompany me. Remain here and keep an eye on Giraud.
Also cultivate the society of Monsieur Renauld fi/s.
'That reminds me,' I said. 'I meant to ask you how you
knew about those two?'


'Mon am/- I know human aatme. Throw together
boy like young Renauld and a beautiful girl like Mademoiselle
Marthe and the result is almost inevitable. Then, the
quarrelI. It was money, or a woman, and, remembering
Lonie's description of the lad's anger, I cledaed on the latter.
$o I made my guess- and I was rights
'You already suspected that she loved young Renauld?'
Po[rot smiled.
'At any rate, I saw that e anxious eyes. That is how
I always think of Mademoiselle Daubreuil - a

His voice was so grave that it impressed me uncomfortably.
'What do you mean by that, Poirot?'
'I fancy, my friend, that we shall see before very long.
But I must start.'
'I will come and see you off; I said, rising.
'You will do nothing of the sort. I forbid it.'
He was so peremptory that I stared at him in surprise. He
nodded emphatically.
'I mean it, mon am/. Au revoir.'
I felt raer at a loose end after Poirot had left me.
strolled down to the beach and watched the bathers, without
feeling energetic enough to join them. I rather fancied that
Cinderella might be disporting herself among them in some
wonderful costume, but I saw no signs of her. I strolled
aimlessly along the sands towards the farther end of the
town. It occurred to me that, after all, it would only be decent
feeling on my part to inquire after the girl And it
would save trouble in the end. The matter would then be
finished with. There would be no need for The to trouble
about' her any further. But if I did not go at all, she might
quite possibly come and look me up at the Villa.
Accordingly, I left the beach, and walked inland. I soon
found the Hotel du Phare, a very unpretentious building,.

1o7


It was annoying in the extreme not to know the lady's name
and, to save my dignity, I decided to stroll inside and look
around. Probably I should find her in the lounge. I went in,
but there was no sign of her. I waited for some time, till my
impatience got the better of me, I took the concierge aside
and slipped five francs into his hand.

'I wish to see a lady who is staying here.. A young English
lady, small and dark. I am not sure of her name.'

The man shook his head and seemed to be suppressing a
grin.

'There is no such lady as you describe staying here.'
'But the lady told me she was staying here.'

'Monsieur must have made a mistake- or it is more likely
the lady did, since there has been another gentleman here
inquiring for her.'

'What is that you say?' I cried, surprised.

'But yes, monsieur. A gentleman who described her just
as you have done.'

'What was he like?'

'He was a mall gentleman, well dressed, very neat, very
spotless, the moustache very stifF, the head of a peculiar
shape, and the eyes green.'

Poirot! So that was why he refused to let me accompany
him to the station. The impertinence of it! I would thank
him not to meddle in my concerns. Did he fancy I needed a
nurse to look after me?

Thanking the man, I departed, somewhat at a loss, and
still much incensed with my meddlesome friend.

But where was the lady? I set aside my wrath and tried
to puzzle it out. Evidently, through inadvertence, she had
named the wrong hotel. Then another thought struck me.
Was it inadvertence? Or had she deliberately withheld her
name and given me the wrong address?

The more I thought about it, the more I felt convinced
that this last surmise of mine was right. For some reason or


other she did not wish to let the acquaintance, ripen into
friendship. And, though half an hour earlier this had been
precisely my own view, I did not enjoy having, the tables
turned upon me. The whole affair was profoundly unsatis-factory,
and I went up to the Villa Genevieve in a condition
of distinct ill burnout. I did not go to the house, but went
up the path to the little bench by the shed, and sat there
moodily enough.

I was distracted from my thoughts by the sound of voices
dose at hand. In a second or two I realized that they came,
not from the garden I was in, but from the adjoining garden
of the Villa Marguerite, and that they were approaching
rapidly. A girl's voice was speakings a voice that I recog-nized
as that of the beautiful Marthe.

'Chdri,' she was saying, 'is it really true? Are all our
troubles over?'

'You know it, Marthe,' Jack Renauld replied. 'Nothing
can part us now, beloved. The last obstacle to our union is
removed. Nothing can take you from me.'

'Nothing?' the girl murmured. 'Oh, Jack, Jack.- I am
afraid.'

I had moved to depart, realizing that I was quite uninten-tionally
eavesdropping: As I rose to my feet, I caught sight
of them through a gap in the hedge. They stood together
facing me, the man's arm round the girl, his eyes looking
imo hers. They were a splendid-looking couple, the dark,
well-knit boy, and the fair young goddess. They seemed
made for each other as they stood there, happy in spite
of the terrible tragedy that overshadowed their young
lives.

But the girl's face as troubled, and Jack Renauld seemed
to recognize it, as he held hex closer to him and asked:
' But what are you afraid of, darling? What is there to fear


And then I savt the look in her eyes, the look Poirot had


spoken of, as she.murmured, so that I almost guessed at the
words:
'I am afraid - for.you.'
I did not hear young Renauld's answer, for my attention
was distracted by an unusual appearance a lithe farther down
the hedge. There appeared to be a brown bush there, which
seemed odd, to say the least of it, so early in the summer. I
stepped along to investigate, but, at my advance, the brown
bush withdrew itself precipitately, and faced me with a finger
to its lips. It was Giraud.
Enjoining cautior he led the way round the shed until we
were out of earshot.
'What were you doing there?' I asked.
'Exactly what you were doing- listening.'
'But I was not there on purpose!'
'Ah!' said Giraud. 'I was.'
As always, I admired the man while disliking him. He
looked me up and down with a sort of contemptuous disfavour.
'You didn't help matters by butting in. I might have
heard something useful in a minute. What have you done
with your old fossil.'
'Monsieur Poirot has gone to Paris,' I replied coldly.
Giraud snapped his fingers disdainfully. 'So he has gone to Paris, has he? Well, a good thing. The longer he stays
there the better. But what does he think he will find there?'
I thought I read in the question a tinge of uneasiness. I
drew myself up.
'That I am not at liberty to say,' I said quietly.
Giraud subjected me to a piercing stare.
'He has probably enough sense not to tell ym6' he remarked
rudely. Good afternoon. I'm busy.' And with that
he turned on his heel, and left me without ceremony.
Matters seemed at a standstill at the Villa GenevieVe.
Giraud evidently did not desire my company and, from what

1IO


I had seen, it seemed fairly certain that Jack Renauld did not either.
I went back to the town, had an enjoyable bathe, and re-mined
to the hotel. I mined in early, wondering whether
the following day would bring forth anything of interest.
I was wholly unprepared for what it did bring forth. I was
eating mypedt dijettner in the dining-room, when the waiter,
who had been talking to someone outside, came back in
obvious excitement. He hesitated for, a minute, fidgeting
with his napkin, and then burst out:
'Monsieur will pardon me, but he is connected, is he not,
with the affair at the Villa Genevi&ve?'
'Yes,' I said eagerly. 'Why?'
'Monsieur has not heard the news, though?'
' What news ?'
'That there has been mother murder there last night!' ' Rat?'
Leaving my breakfast, I caught up my hat and ran as fast
as I could. Another murder- and Poirot away! What
fatality. But who had been murdered ?
I dashed in at the gate. 3- group of servants were in the
drive, talking and gesticulating. I caught hold of Franoise.
'What has happened ?'
'Oh, monsieur! monsieur! Another death! It is terrLble.
There is a curse upon the house. But yes, I say it, a curse!
They should send for Monsieur le Curt to bring some holy
water. Never will I sleep another night under that roof. It
might be my turfb who knows?'
She crossed herself.
'Yes,' I cried, 'but who has been killed?'
'Do I know- me? A man- a stranger. They found him
up there- ia the shed- not a hundred yards from where
they found poor Monsieur. And that is not all He is stabbed - stabbed m the heart ,it tamt dagger!'

II1


explained. 'It pleases the examining magistrate. Well, do you notice anything else?'
I was forced to shake my head.
'Look at his hands.'
I did. The nails were broken and discoloured and the skin
was hard. It hardly enlightened me as much as I should have
liked it to have done. I looked up at Giraud.
'They are not the hands of a gentleman,' he said, answering
my look. 'On the contrary, his clothes are those of a
well-to-do man. That is curious is it not?'
'Very curious,' I agreed.
'And none of his clothing is marked. What do we learn
from that? This man was trying to pass himself offas other
than tie was. He was masquerading. Why? Did he fear something?
Was he trying to escape by disguising himself? As
yet we do not know, but one thing we do know - he was
as anxious to conceal his identity as we are to discover it.'
He looked down at the body again.
'As before, there are no fingerprints on the handle of the
dagger. The murderer again wore gloves.'
'You think, then, that the murderer was the same in both
cases?' I asked eagerly.
Giraud became inscrutable.
'Never mind What I think. We shall see. Marchaudl' The ergent de ville appeared at the door.
'Monsieur?'
'Why is Madame Benauld not here? I sent for her a
quarter of an hour ago.'
'She is coming up the path now monsieur, and her son
with he.'

	Good. I only want one at a time, though.'
Marchaud saluted and disappeared again. A moment later
he reappeared with Mrs Renauld.
'Here is Madame.'
Giraud came forward with a curt bow.


'This .wa3,, madame.' He led her across, and then, standing
sudderly asides 'Here is the man. Do you know

And as h spokes his eyes, gimlet-like bored into her 즑ces
seeking to read her minds noting every indication of her
ITlanrlero
But Mrs Renauld remained perfectly calm-- too calm, I
felt. She lO%ked down at the corpse almost without interesg
certainly thout any sign of agitation or recognition.
'No; sh said. 'I have never seen him in ray life. He is
quite a sUahger to me.'
'You ar sure?'
' Quite Sre.,
'You do not recognize ia'him one of your assailants, for
instance ? '
'No.' $h seea to hesitate, as though struck by the idea.
'No, I do rot think so. Of course they wor beards - false
ones the g magistrate thought- but still, o.' Now
she seemetl to make her mind up defmitdy, 'I am sur
neither of the two was this man.'

	silver threads in her hah'. ]ack
	suc!! he. Hes
	too, failed idenfif7 tl man in a eompletd man-

Glmml. merely grunted. Wher. h he wa pll or
chagrined could not tell. He called ['o Marchaad.
'You have got the other there.}'

'Th other' was Madame DaubreuiL She a indig-
na ,tly, prn ang with vehemea
. I ohl .e- monsieurl This is an outrgel /at !w I to
do with all this?'
'Madar%,, said Giraud brutally, 'I am invstiting not


one murder, but two murdersl For all I know you may have
committed them both.'

'ltow dare you?' she cried. 'How dare you insult me by
such a wild accusation! It is infamons!'

'Infamous, is it? What about this?' Stooping, he again
detached the hair, and held it up. 'Do you see this, ma-dame?'
tte advanced towards her. You permit that I s
whether it matches?'

With a cry she started backwards, white to the lips.

'It is false, I swear it. I know nothing of the crime - of
either crime. Anyone who says I do lies! Ah, moa D/eu,
what shall I do ?'

'Calm yourself, madame,' said Giraud coldly. 'No one
has accused you as yet. But you will do well to answer my
questions without more ado.'

'Anything you wish, monsieur.'

'Look at the dead man. Have you ever seen him before?'
Drawing nearer, a little of the colour creeping back to
her face, Madame Daubreuil looked down at the victim with
a certain amount of interest and curiosity. Then she shook
her head.

'I do not know him.'

It seemed impossible to doubt her, the words came so
naturally. Giraud dismissed her with a nod of the head.

'You are letting her go?' I asked in a low voice. 'Is that
wise? Surely that black hair is from her head.'

'I do not need teaching my business,' said Giraud dryly.
'She is under surveillance. I have no wish to arrest her as
yet.'

Then, frowning, he gazed down at the body.

'Should you say that was a Spanish type at all?' he asked
suddenly.

I considered the face carefully.

'Nc/,' I said at last. 'I should put him down as a French-man
moat decidedly.'


Gimud gave a grunt of dissatisfaction.
'Same here.'
He stood there for a moment, then with an imperative
gesture he waved me aside and once more, on hands and
knees he continued his search of the floor of the shed. He
was marvellous. Nothing escaped him. Inch by inch he went
over the floor, turning over pots, examining old sacks. He
pounced on a bundle by the door, but it proved to be only
a ragged coat and trousers, and he flung it down again with
a snarl Two pairs of old gloves interested him, but in the
end he shook his head and laid them aside. Then he went
back to the pots, methodically turning them over one by
one. In the. end he rose to his feet, and shook his head
thoughtfully. He seemed bari/ed and perplexed. I think he
had forgotten my presence.
But at the moment a stir and bustle was heard outside, and
our old friend, the examining magistrate accompanied by
his clerk and M. Bex with the doctor behind them, came
bustling in.
'But this is extraordinary, Monsieur Giraod,' cried M.
Hautet. 'Another crime! Ah, we have not got to the bottom
of this case. There is some deep mystery here. But who is the
victim this time?'
'That is jusz what nobody can tell us, monsieur. He has
not been identified.'
'Where is the body?' asked the doctor.
Giraud moved aside a little.
'There in the corner. He has been stabbed to the heart,
as you see. And with the dagger that was stolen yesterday
morning. I fancy that the murder followed hard upon the
theft- but that is for you to say. You can handle the dagger
freely- there are no fingerprints on it.'
The doctor knelt down by the dead man and Giraud
turned to the examining magistrate.
'A pretty little problem, is it not? But I shall solve it.'


'And so no one can identify him' mused the magistrate.
'Could it possibly be one of the assassins? They may have
fallen out among themselves.'
Giraud shook his head.
'The man is a Frenc. hmm-. I would take my oath of
that '
But at that moment they were interrupted by the doctor,
who was sitting back on his heels with a perplexed expression.
'You say he was killed yesterday morning?'
'I fix it by the theft of the dagger,' explained Giraud.
'He may, of course, have been killed later in the day.'
'Later in the day? Fiddlesficksl This man has been dead
at least forty-eight hours, and probably longer.'
We stared at each other in blank amazement.


CHAPTER 15

A PHOTOGRAPH

Tm doctor's words were so surprising that we were all
momentarily taken aback. Here was a man stabbed with a
dagger which we knew to have been stolen only twenty-four
hours previously, and yet Dr Durand asserted positively
that he had been dead at least forty-eight hours! The
whole .thing was fantastic to the last extreme.
We were still recovering from the surprise of the doctor's
announcement when a telegram was brought to me. It had
been sent up from the hotel to the Villa. I tore it open. It
was from Poirot, and announced his return by the train
arriving at Merlinville at xz.zS.
I looked at my watch and saw that I had just time to get
comfortably to the station and meet him there. I felt that it
was of the utmost importance that he should know at once of the new and startling developments in the case.
Evidently, I reflected, Poirot had had no difficulty in finding
what he wanted in Paris. The quickness of his return
proved that. Very few hours had sufficed. I wondered how
he would take the exciting news I had to impart.
The train was some minutes late, and I strolled aimlessly
up and down the plafform until it occurred to me that I
might pass the time by asking a few questions as to who had
left Merlinville by the last train on the evening of the tragedy.
I approached the chief porters an intelligent-looking man,
and had little difficulty in persuading him to enter upon the
subject, It was a disgrace to the police, he hotly affirmed,
that such brigands or assassins should be allowed to go about
unpunished. I hinted that there was some possibility they
might have left by the midnight train but he negatived the


idea decidedly. He would have aoticed two foreigners - he
was sure of it. Only about twenty people had left by the
train, mid he could not have failed to observe them.

I do not know what put the idea into my head- possibly
it was the deep anxiety underlying Marthe DaubreuWs tones
- but I asked suddenly:

'Young Monsieur Reaauld- he did not leave by that
train, did he?'

'Ah, no, monsieur. To arrive and start off again within
half an hour, it would not be amusing, that!'

I stared at the man, the significance of his words almost
escaping me. Then I saw.

'You mean,' I said, my. heart beating a little, ' that Mon-sieur
Jack Renanld arrived at Merlinville that evening?'

'But yes, monsieur. By the last train arriving the other
way, the xx.4o.'

My brain whirled. That, then, was the reason of Marthe's
poignant anxiety. Jack Benauld had been in Merlinville on
the night of the crime. But why had he not said o? Why, on
the contrary, had he led us to believe that he had remained
in Cherbourg? Remerabering his frank boyish countenance,
I could hardly bring myself to believe that be had any con-nexion
with the crime. Yet why this silence on his part
about so vital a matter? One thing was certain, Marthe had
known allalong. Hence her anxiety, and her eager question-ing
of Poirot as to whether anyone was suspected.

My cogitations were interrupted by the arrival of the train,
and in another moment I was greeting Poirot. The little man
was radiant. He beamed and vociferated and, forgetting my
English reluctance, embraced me warmly on the platform.

'Mon crier am/ I have succeeded- but succeeded to a
marvel! '

'Indeed? I'm delighted to hear it. Have you heard the
latest here?'
'How would you that I should hear anything? There


have bem some developmenlx, eh? The brave Giraud he
has made an arrest? Or even arres perhaps? Ah, but I
make him look foolish, that one! But wh' are you taking
me, my friend? Do we not go to the hotel? It is necessary
that I attend to my moustaches - they are deplorably limp
from the heat of travelling. Also, without doubt, them is
dust on my coat. And my tie, that I must rearrange.'
I cut short his remonstrances.
' My dear Poirot- never mind all that. We must go to the
Villa at once. There has been another murder/'
Never have I seen a man so flabbergasted. His jaw dropped.
All the jauntiness went out of his bearing. He stared at
me openmouthed.
'What is that you say? Another murder? Ah, then, but I
am all wrong. I have failed. Giraud may mock himself at
me - he will have reason!'
'You did not expect it, then?'
'I? Not the least in the world. It demolishes my theory
- it ruins everything - it -- Ah, no!' He stopped dead,
thumping himself on the chest. 'It is impossible. I cannot be wrong! The facts, taken methodically, and in their proper
order, admit of only one explanafiom I must be rightl I am
rightl'
' But then --'
He interrupted, me.
'Wait, my friend. I must be right, therefore this new
murder is impossib!e unless - unless m 01% wait, I implore
you. Say no word.'
He was silent for a moment or two, then resuming his
normal manner, he said in a quiet assured voice:
'The victim is a man of middle age. His body was found
in the locked shed near the scene of the crime and had been
dead at least forty-eight hour. And it is most probable that
he was stabbed in a similar manner to Mr Benauld, though
not necessarily in the back.'


ledge of Poirot he had never done anything so amazing as
this. And, almost inevimbly a doubt crossed my mind.

'Poirot,' I cried, 'you're pulling my leg. You've heard
all about it already.'

He turned his earnest gaze upon me reproachfully.

'Would I d컎uch a thing? I assure you that I have heard
nothing whatsoever. Did you not observe the shock your

I1eWS WaS tO me?*

'But how on earth could you know all that?'

'I was right, then? But I knew it. The little grey cells,
my friend, the little grey cellsl They told me. Thus, and in
no other way, could there have been a second death. Now
tell me all. If we go round to the left here, we can take a short
cut across the golf links which will bring us to the back of
the Villa Genevitve much more quickly.'

As we walked, taking the way he had indieated I re-counted
all I knew. Poirot listened attentively.

'The dagger was in the wound, you say? That is curious.
You are sure it was the s one?'

'Absolutely c.e. rmim That's what makes it so impossible.'

'Notl.'ng is impossible. There may have been two
daggers.'

I raised my eyebrows.

'Surely that is in the highest degree unlikely? It would be
a most extraordinary coincidence.'

' You speak as usual, without reflection, Hastings. In some
cases two identical weapons ,,ould be highly improbable.
But not here. This particular weapon was a war souvenir
which was made to Jack Benauld's orders. It is really highly
unlikely, when you come to think of it, that he should have
had only one made. Very probably he would have another
for his own use.'

'But nobody has mentioned such a thing,' I objected.

A hint of the lecturer crept into Poirot's tone.


'My friend, in working upon a case, one :does not take
into account only the things that are "mentioned". There is
no reason to mention many things which may be important.
Equally, there is often an excellent reason for not mentioning
them. You can take your choice of the two motives.'

I was silent, impressed in spite of myself. Another few
minutes brought us to the famous shed. We found all our
friends there, and after an interchange of polite amenities,
Poirot began his task.

Having watched Giraud at work, I was keenly interested.
Poirot bestowed but a cursory glance on the surroundings.
The only thing he examined was the ragged coat and
trousers by the door. A disdainful smile rose to Giraud's
lips, and, as though noting it, Poirot flung the bundle down
again.

' Old clothes of the gardener's?' he queried.

'Exactly,' said Giraud.

Poirot knelt down by the body. His fingers were rapid
but methodical. He examined the texture of the clothes, and
satisfied himself that there were no marks on them. The
boots he subjected to special care, also the dirty and broken
fingernails. While examining the latter he threw a quick
question at Giraud.

'You saw them?'

'Yes, I saw them,' replied the other. His face remained
inscrutable.

Suddenly Poirot stiffened.

'Dr Durand!'

'Yes?' The doctor came forward.

'There is foam on the lips. You observed it?'
'I didn't notice it, I must admit.'
'But you observe it now?'
' Oh, certainly.'

Poirot again shot a question at Giraud.

'You noticed it without doubt?'


The other did not reply. Poirot proceeded. The dagger
had been withdrawn from the wound. It xxd in a glass
jar by the side of the body. Poirot examined its then he
studied the wound closely. When he looked up his eyes were

'It is a strange wound thisl It has not bled. There is no
stain on the clothes. The blade of the dagger is slightly dis-coloureds
that is all What do you thin rrmndeur/g
teur?'
'I can only say that it is most abnormal.'
'h is not abnormal at all It is most simple. The man
stabbed after wat.' Andstilling the clamour of
voices that arose with a wave o즚is hand, Poirot turned to
Giraud and added: 'M. Giraud agrees with me do you not,
monsieur?'
Whatever Giraud's real belief, he acceptM the position
,ithout mong a muscle.. Calmly and almost scormCully he

' Certainly I agree.'
The murmur o즧urprise and interest broke out again.
'But what an ideal' cried M. Hautet. 'To stab a man a즨er
he is dead! Barbaric[ Unheard ofI Some unappeasable hate
perhaps.'
'No,' said Polrot. 'I should 즑ncy it was done quite cold-
bloodedly- to create an impression.'
' What impression?'
'The impression it nearly did create' returned Poirot
oracularly.
M. Bex had been thinking.
'How, then, wa the man 1tilled?'
'He was not killed. He died. He diM, if I am not much
mistaker of an epileptic it!'
This statement of Poiot's again aroused coiderable
excitement. Dr Durand knelt down again, and made a
searching examination. At last he to to his feet.


'Monsieur Poirot, I a inclin to believe that you are
correct in your assertion. I as killed to with. The
incontrovertible fact tha the man had been stabbed disn-acted
my attention from any other indications.'
Poirot was the hero of the hour. The examinin magistrate
was profuse in compliments. Poirot responded
fully, and then excused himself on the pretext that neither he
nor I had yet lunched and that he wished to repair the ravages
of the journey. As we were about to leave the shed,
Giraud approached us.
'One other thing Monsieur loirot* he said in his suave
mocking voice. 'We found this coiled round the handle of
the dagger- a woman's hair.'
'AM' said Poirot. 'l woman's hair? What woman's, I
wonder?'
'I wonder also said Giraud. Then with a bow he
left us.
'He was insistent the good Giraud' said Poirot thoughtfully,
as we walked towards the hotel. 'I wonder in what
direction he hopes to mislead me? A woman's hair - h'ml'
We lunched heartily, but I found Poirot somewhat distrait
and inattentive. Afterwards we went up to our sitting-roorn
and there I begged him to tell me something of his
mysterious jourriey to Paris.
'Willingly, my friend. I went to Paris to fred dd..
lie took from his pocket a small faded newspaper cutting.
It was the reproduction of a woman's photograph, lie
handed it to me. I uttered an exclama6on.
'You recognize it my friend?'
I nodded. Although the photo obviously dated from very
many years hack, and the hair was dressed in a 0iferent style,
the likeness was unmistakable.
'Madame Daubreuil!' I exclaimed.
Poirot shook his head with a smile.
'Not quite correc% my friend. She did not call herself by


that name in those days. That is a picture of the notorious
Madame Beroldy!'
Madame Beroldy! In a flash the whore thing came back to
me. The murder trial that had evoked such worldwide
interest.
The 'eroldy Case.


CHAlYI'ER 18


THE BEROLDY CASE


$O1 twenty years or so before the opening of the present
story, Monsieur Arnold Beroldy, a native of Lyons, arrived
in Paris accompanied by his pretty wife and their little
daughter, a mere babe. Monsieur Beroldy was a junior part-her
in a firm of wine merchants, a stout middle-aged man,
fond of the good things of life. devoted to his charming
wife, and altogether unremarkable in every way. The
finn in which Monsieur Beroldy was a partner was a small
one and, although doing well, it,did not yield a large
income to the junior partner. The Beroldys had a small
apa, mient and lived in a very modest fashion to begin


But, unrernarkable though Monsieur Beroldy might be,
his wife was plentifully gilded with the brush of Romance.
Young and good-looking, and gifted withal with a singular
charm of manner, Madame Beroldy at once created a stir in
the quarter, especially when it began to be whispered that
some interesting mystery surrounded her birth. It was
rumoured that she was the illegitimate daughter ora Russian
Grand Duke. Others asserted that it was an Austrian Arch-duke,
and that the union was legal, though morganatic. But
all stories agreed upon one point, that Jeanne Beroldy was
the centre of an interesting mystery.

Among the friends and acquaintances of the Beroldys
v-as a young lawyer, Georges Conneau. It was soon evident
that the fascinating Jeanne had completely enslaved his
heart. Madame Beroldy encouraged the young man in a dis-creet
fashion, but always being careful to affirm her complete
devotion to her middle-aged husband. Neverthelesss many


spiteful persons did not hesitate to declare that young Con-.
neau was her lover- and not the only one!
When the Beroldys had been in Paris about three months
another personage came upon the scene. This was Mr
Hiram P. Trapp, a native of the United States, and extremely
wealthy. Introduced to the charming and mysterious Madame
Beroldy, he fell a prompt victim to her fascinations.
His admiration was obvious, though strictly respectful.
About this time, Madame Beroldy became more outspoken
in her confidences. To several friends, she declared
herself greatly worried on her husband's behalf. She explained
that he had been drawn into several schemes of a
political nature, and also referred, to some important papers
that had been entrusted to him for safe-keeping and which
-concerned a 'secret' of far-reaching European importance.
They had been entrusted to his custody to throw pursuers
off file track, but Madame Beroldy was nervous, having
recognized several important members of the Revolutionary
Circle in Paris.
On the 28th day of November the blow fell. The woman
who came daily to clean and cook for the Beroldys was surprised
to find the door of the apartment standing wide open.
Hearing faint moans issuing from the bedroom, she went in.
A terrible sight met her eyes. Madame Beroldy lay on the
floor bound hand and foot, uttering feeble moans, having
managed to free her mouth from a gag. On the bed was
Monsieur Beroldy, lying in a pool of blood, with a knife
driven through his heart.
Madame Beroldy's story was clear enough. Suddenly
awakened from sleep, she had discerned two masked men
bending over her. Stifling her cries, they had bound and
gagged her, They had then demanded of Monsieur Beroldy
the famous 'secret'.
But the intrepid wine merchant refused point-blank to
accede to their request. Angered by his refusal, one of the


men inconnently stabbed him through the hear With the
dead man's keys, they had opened the safe in the corner, and
had carried away with them a mass of papers. Both men
were heavily bearded, and had worn masks, but Madame
Beroldy declared positively that they were Russians.
The affair created an immense sensatiom Time went on,
and the mysterious bearded men were never traced. And
then, just as public interest was beginning to die down, a
startling development occurred: Madame Beroldy was
arrested and charged with the murder of her husband.
The trial, when it came on, aroused widespread interest.
The youth and beauty of the accused, and her mysterious Mswry, were sufiident to make of it a ca줹bre.
It was proved beyond doubt that Jeanne Beroldy's
parents were a highly iespectable and prosaic couple, fruit
merchan who lived on the outskirts of Lyons. The Bus-sian
Grand Duke, the court intrigues, and the political
schemes- all the stories aan-ent were traced back to the hdy
herselfl Remorselessly, the whole story of her life was laid
bare. The motive for the murder was found in Mr Hiram P.
Trapp. Mr Trapp did his best, but, elendessly and agilely
cross-questioned, he was forced to admit that he loved the
lady, and that, had she been free, he would have asked her to
be his wife. The fact that the relations between them were
admittedly phtonic strengthened the case against the
accused. Debarred from becoming his mistress by the simple
honourable nature of the man, Jeanne Beroldy had conceived
the monstrous pwject of ridding herself of her elderly, undistinguished
husband and becoming the wife of the rich

Throughout, Madame Beroldy confronted her accusers
with complete sang-froid and self-possession. Her story
never varied. She continued to declare strenuously that she
was of royal birth and that she had. been substituted for the
daughter of the fruit-seller at au early age. Absurd and


completely unsubstantiated a these statements wet% a gxeat
number of people believed implicitly in their truth.
But the prosecution was implacable. It denounced the
masked' Russians' as a myth, and asserted that the crime had
been committed by Madame leroldy and her lover, Georges
Conneau. A warrant was isstted for the arrest of the latter,
but he had wisely disappearS. Evidence showed that the
bonds which secured Madame Reroldy were so loose that she
could easily have freed herselE
And then, towards the clos of the trial, a letter, posted in
Paris, was sent to the Public Prosecutor. It was from
Georges Conneau and, withotat revealing his whereabouts,
it contained a full confession t the crime. He declared that
he had indeed struck the fal blow at Madame Beroldy's
instigation. The crime had hecta planned between them. Believing
that her husband ill-teated her, and maddened by
his own passion for her, a passion which he believed her to
return, he had planned the crrne and struck the fatal blow
that should free the woman he loved from a hateful bondage.
Now, for the first time, he learnt of Mr Hiram P. Trapp, and
realized that the woman he loved had betrayed him! Not for
his sake did she wish to be frte, but in order to marry the
wealthy American. She had tcl him as a cat's paw, and
now, in his jealous rage, he tUrned and denounced her, de-daring
that throughout he hact acted at her instigation.
And then Madame Beroldy la'roved herself the remarkable
woman she undoubtedly was. Without hesitation, she dropped
her previous defence, and lmitted that the 'Russians'
were a pure invention on her Dart. The real murderer vras
Georges Couneau. Maddened 13, passion, he had committ
the crime, vowing that if she diid not keep silence he would
d
exact a terrible vengeance fron, her. Terrified by his threats,
she had consented - also fearing it likely that if she told the
truth she might be accused of' ,onniving at the crime, lut
she had steadfastly refused to h-,ve anything more to do with


her husband's.murderer, and it was in revenge for this atti-tude
on her part that he had written this letter accusing her.
She swore solemnly that she had had nothing to do with the
planning of the crimes that she had awoke on that memorable
night to find Georges Conneau slanding over her the blood-stained
knife in his hand.

It was a touch-and-go affair. Madame Beroldy's story was
hardly credible. But her address to the jury was a master-piece.
The tears streaming down her face, she spoke of her
child of her woman's honour - of her desire to keep her
reputation untarnished for the child's sake. She admitted
that, Georges Cotmeau having been her lover, she might
perhaps be held morally responsible for the crime- but, be-fore
God, nothing morel She knew that she had committed a
-grave fault in not denouncing Conneau to the hw but she
declared in a broken voice that that was a thing no woman
could have done.. She had loved himl Could she let her hand
be the one to send him to the guiliodne? She had been guilty
ofmuch but she was innocent of the terrible crime imputed
to her.

However that may have been, her eloquence and per-sonality
won the day. Madame Berotdy, amidst a scene of
unparalleled exdtemeat, was acquitted.

Despite the utmost endeavours of the police, Georges
Cormeau was never traced. As for Madame Beroldy, nothing
more was heard of her. Taking the child with her, she left

Paris to begiti a new life.


CHAPTER

WE
	MAKE FURTHER INVESTIGATIONS

I xw set down the Beroldy case in full. Of course all the
details did not present themselves to my memory as I have
recounted them here. Nevertheless, I recalled the case fairly
accurately. It had attracted a great deal of interest at the time,
and had been fully reported by the English papers, so that it
did not need much effort of memory on my part to recollect
the salient details.
Just for the moment, in my excitement, it seemed to clear
up the whole matter. I admit that I am impulsive, and Poirot
deplores my custom of jumping to conclusions, but I think I
had some excuse in this instance. The remarkable way in
which this diacovery justified Poirot's point of view struck
me at once.
' Poirot,' I aid 'I congratulate yom I see everything now.'
Poirot lit one of his little cigarettes with his usual precision.
Then he looked up.
'And since you see everything nov,,, moa and, what
exactly is it that you see?'
'Why, that it was Madame Daubreuil - Beroldy- who
murdered Mr Renauld. The similarity of the tw캽ases
proves that beyond a doubt.'
'Then you consider that Madame Beroldy was wrongly
acquitted? That-in actual fact she was guilty of connivance
in her husband's murder?'
I opened my eyes wide.
' Of course! Don't you?'
Poirot walked to the end of the room, absentmindedly
straightened a chair, and then said thoughtfully:
'Yes that is my opinion. But there ia no "of course"


about it, my friend. Technically speaking, Madame Brol4y
is innocent.'
'Of that crime, perhaps. But not of this.'
Poirot sat down again, and regarded me, his thoughtful
air more marked than ever.
'So it is definitely your opinion, Hastings, that Madame
Daubreuil murdered Monsieur Renauld?'
' Yes.'
'Why?'
He shot the question at me with such suddenness flaat I
was taken aback.
'Why?' I stammered. 'Why? Oh, because --' I came to
a stop.
Poirot nodded his head at me.
'You see, you come to a stumbling-block at once. Why
should Madame Daubreuil (I shall call her that for clearness'
sake) murder Monsieur Benauld ? We can find no shadow of
a motive. She does not benefit by his death; considered as
either mistress or blackmailer she stands to lose. You cannot
have a murder without motive. The first crime was different
- there we had a rich lover waiting to step into her husband's
shoes.'
'Money is not the only motive for murder,' I objected.
'True,' agreed Polrot placidly. 'There are two others, the crime 즑s.ffonnel is one. And there is the third rare mo-five,
murder for an idea which implies some form of mental
derangement on the part of the murderer. Homicidal mania
and religious fanaticism belong to that olass. We can rule
it out here.'
' But what about the 줿/ntxs#ionnl? Can you rule that
out? If Madame Daubreuil was Renauld's mistress, if she
found that his affection was cooling, or if her jealousy ras
aroused in any way, might she not have struck him down in
a moment of anger?'
Poirot shook his head.


'If- I say/f, you note Madame Daubreuil was Hen-auld's
mistress, he had not had time to tire of her. And in any
case you mistake her character. She is a woman who can
simulate great emotional stress. She is a magnificent actress.
But, looked at dispassionately, her life disproves her appearance.
Throughout, if we examine it, she has been coldblooded
and calculating in her motives and actions. It was
not to link her life with that of her young lover that she con-hived
at her husband's murder. The rich American, for
whom she probably did not care a button, was her objective.
If she committed a crime, she would always do so for gain.
Here there was no gain. Besides, how do you account for the
digging of the grove? That was a man's work.'
'She might have had an accomplice,' I suggested, unwilling
to relinquish my belief.
'I pass to another objection. You have spoken of the
similarity between the two crimes. Wherein does that lie,
my friend?'
I stared at him in astonishment.
'Why, Poirot, it was you who remarked on thatl The
story of the masked men, the "secret" the papersl'
Poirot smiled a little.
'Do not be so indignant, I beg of yom I repudiate nothing.
The similarity of the two stories links the two cases together
inevitably. But reflect now on something very curious.
It is not Madame Daubreuil who tells us this tale- if it
were, all would indeed be plain sailing- it is Madame Benauld.
Is she then in league with the other?'
'I can't believe that,' I said slowly. 'If she is, she must
be the most consummate actress the world has ever known.'
'Ta ta ta!' said Poirot impatiently. 'Again you have the
sentiment and not the logic! If it is necessary for a criminal
to be a consummate actress, then by all means assume her to
be one. But is it necessary? I do not believe Mrs Benauld to
be in league with Madame Daubreuil for several reasons,

34


night of the crime. I had hoped to catch ay astute little
friend napping, but as usual he was omniscient, tie, too had
inquired at the statior
'And without doubt we are not original in the idea
Hastings. The excellent Giraud, he also has probably made

'You don't think --' I saic and then stopped. 'AI no, it
would be too horriblel'
Poirot looked inquiringly at me, but I said no more. It
had just occurred to me that though there were seven
men, directly and indirectly connected with the case - Mrs
Renauld, Madame Daubreuil and her daughter, the mysterious
visitor and the three servants- there was, with the
exception of old Auguste, who could hardly count, only
one man - Jack Renauld. dui a man rrat we dug

I had no time to develop farther the appalling idea that
had occurred to me, for Jack Renauld was ushered into the
room.
Poirot greeted him in business-like manner.
'Take a seat monsieur. I regret infinitely to derange you,
but you will perhaps understand that the atmosphere of the
Villa is not too congenial to me. Monsieur Giraud and I do
not see eye to eye about everything. His politeness to me has
not been striking, and you will comprehend that I do not
intend any little discoveries I may make to benefit him in
any way.'
'Exactly, Monsieur Poirot' said the lad. 'That fellow
Giraud is an iR-conditioned brute, and I'd be delighted to
see someone score at his expense.'
'Then I may ask a little favour of you ?'
' Certainly.'
'I will ask you to go to he railway station and take a
train to the next statioz along the line, Abbalac. Ask at the
cloak-rooTM whether two foreigners deposited a valise there
x36


on the night of the murder, h is a small station, and they a
almost certain to remember. Will you do tiffs?'

' Of course I wills' said the boy mystifiec though ready
for the task.

'I and my friend you comprchend have business else-here'
explained Poirot. 'There is a wain in a quarter
of an hour, and I will ask you not to return to the Villa
as I have no wish for Giraud w get an ikllng of your
errand.'

'Very well, I will go straight to the station.'

He rose to his feet. Poirot's voice stopped him:

' One moment, Monsieur Renauld there is one little mat-ter
that puzzles me. Why did you not mention to Monsieur
Hautet this morning that you were in Merlinville on the
night of the crime?'

Jack Renauld's face went crimson. With an effort he
controlled himsel/

'You have made a mistake. I was in Cherbourg as I told
the examining magistrate this morning.'

Poirot looked at bin% his eyes narrowed cat-like until
they only showed a gleam of green.

'Then it is a singular mistake that I have made there- for
it is shared by the station staff. They say you arrived by the
x 1.4o train.'

For a moment Jack Henauld hesitatec! then he made up
his mind.

'And if I did? I suppose you do not mean to accuse me
of participating in my father's murder?' He asked the ques-tion
haughtily, his head thrown back.

'I should like an explanation of the reason that brought
you here.'

'That is simple enough. I came to see my fiancle, Made-moiselle
Daubreuil. I was on the eve of a long voyage, un-certain
as to when I should return. I wished to see her before
I went, to assure her of my unchanging devotion.'


'And did you see her?' Poirot's eyes 'never left the
other's face.
There was an appreciable pause before Rev, auld replied.
Then he said:
YES.*
'And ats?'
'I found I had missed the last wain. I walked to St Beau
vais, where I knocked up a garage and got a car to take me
back to Cherbourg.'
'St Beauvais? That is ratteen kilometres. A long wallq M.
Renauld.'
'I- I felt like walking.'
Poirot bowed Ms head as a sign that he accepted the
planatiom Jack Benauld took up his hat and cane and departed.
In a trice Poirot jumped to his feet.
' Qu/ck, Hastings. We will go after him.'
Keeping a discreet distance behind our quarry, we followed
him through the streets of Merlinville. But when
Poirot saw that he took the turning to the station he checked
himself.
'All is well. He has taken the bait. Hewill go to Abhalac,
and will inquire for the mythical valise left by the mythical
foreigners. Yes, mot onl, all that was a little invention of my.

'You wanted Mm out of the way!' I exclaimed.
'Your penetration is amazing, ttastings! Now, if you
please, we will go up to the Villa Genevieve.'


CHAPTER 18

GIRAUD ACTS

AmuvsI) at the Villa Poirot led the way up to the shed
where the second body had been discovered. He did not,
however, go in, but paused by the bench which I have mentioned
before as being set some few yards away from it.
After contemplating it for a moment or two, he paced carefully
from it to the hedge which marked the boundary between
the Villa Genevitve and the Villa Marguerite. Then
he paced back again, nodding his head as he did so. Returning
again to the hedge, he parted the bushes with his
hands.
'With good fomme,' he remarked to me over his
shoulder, 'Mademoiselle Marthe may find herself in the
garden. I desire to speak to her and would prefer not to c. all
formally at the Villa Marguerite. Ah, all is well, there she is.
Pst, Mademoisenel Pstl Uh moment; '//vousolatt.'
I joined him at the moment that Mare Daubreuil, looking slightly startled, came nmaing up to the hedge at his

'A little word with you mademoiselle, if it is per-

'Certainly, Monsieur Poirot.'
Despite her acquiescence, her eyes looked troubled and
afraid.
' Mademoiselle, do you remember running after me on the
road the day that I came to your house with the examining
magistrate? You asked me if anyone were suspected of the crime,'
'And you told me two Chileans.' Her voice sounded
rather breauhles, and her left hand stole to her breast.

139


'Will you ask me the same question again, mademoiselle?'
'What do you mean?'

'This. If you were to ask me that question again, I should
give you a different answer. Someoneis suspected- but not
a Chilean.'

'Who?' The word cam faintly between her parted lips.
'Monsieur Jack Renaulck'

'What?' It was a cry. 'Jack? Impossible. Who dares to

suspect him?'

' Giraud.'

'Giraudl' The girl's face was ashy. 'I am afraid of that
man. He is cruel. He will - he will --' She broke off. There
was courage gathering in her face and determination. I
realized in that moment that she was a fighter. Po[rog too,
watched her intently.

'You know, of courses that he was here on the night of'
the murder?' he asked.

'Yes,' she replied mechanically. 'He told me.'

'It was unwise to have tried to conceal the fact,' ventured
Poirot.

'Yes yes' she replied impatiently. 'But we cannot waste
time on regrets. We must find something to save him. He is
innocent, of course; but that will not help him with a man
like Giraud, who has his reputation to think of. He must
arrest someone, and that someone will be Jack.'

'The facts will tell against hhna,' said Po[rot. 'You realize
that?'

She riced him squarely.

'I am not a child, monsieur. I can be brave and look facts
in the face. He is innocent, and we must save him.'

She spoke with a kind of desperate energy, then was silent,
frowning as she thought.

'Mademoiselle' said Poirot, observing her keenly, 'is
there not something that you are keeping back that you
could tell us?'


4o


She nodded perplexedly.
'Yes, there is something, but I hardly know whether you
will believe it- it seems so. absurd.'
'At any rate, tell us, mademoiselle.'
'It is this. M. Giraud sent for me, as an afterthought, to
see if I could identify the man in there.' She signed with her
head towards the shed. 'I could not. At least I could not at
the moment. But since I have been thinking --'
'Well?'
'It seems so queer, and yet I ara almost sure. I will tell
you. On the morning of the day Monsieur Renauld was
murdered, I was walking in the garden here, when I heard a
sound of men's voices quarrelling. I pushed aside the bushes
and looked through. One of the men was Monsieur Renauld
and the other was a tramp, a dreadful-looking creature in
filthy rags. He was alternately whining and threatening. I gathered he was asking for money, but at that moment
maman called me from the house, and I had to go. That is all , only- I am almost sure that the tramp and the dead man
in the shed are one and the same,'
Poirot uttered an exclamation.
'But why did you not say so at the time, mademoiselle?'
'Because at first it only struck me that the face was
vaguely familiar in some way. The man was differently
dressed, and apparently belonged to a superior station in
life.'
A voice called from the house.
'Maman' whispered Marthe: 'I must go.' And she
slipped away through the trees.
'Come,' said Poirot, and taking my arrr turned in the
direction of the Villa.
'What do you really think?' I asked in some curiosity.
' Was that story true, or did the girl make it up in order to
divert suspicion from her lover?'
'It is a curious tale/said Poirot 'but I believe it to be

x4x


the absolute truth. Unwittingly, Mademoiselle Marthe told us the truth on another point - and incidentally gave Jack
Renauld the lie. Did you notice his hesitation when I asked
him if he saw Marthe Daubreuil on the night of the crime?
He paused and then said "Yes". I suspected that he was
lying. It was necessary for me to see Mhdemoiselle Marthe
before he could put her on her guard. Three little words
gave me the information I wanted. When I asked her if she
knew that Jack Benauld was here that night, she answered,
"He told me". Now, Hastings, what was Jack Renautd doing
here on that eventful evening, and if he did not see Mademoiselle
Marthe whom did he see?'
'Surely, Poirot,' I cried, aghast, 'you cannot believe that
a boy like that would murder his own father!'
'Mon ami,' said Poirot. 'You continue to be of a sentimentality
unbelievablel I have seen mothers who murdered
their little children for the sake of the insurance moneyl
After that, one can believe anything.'
'And the motive?'
'Money of course. Bemember that Jack Benauld thought
that he would come into half his father's fortune at the ht-ter's
death.'
'But the tramp. Where does he come in?'
Poirot shrugged his shoulders.
' Giraud would say that he was an accomplice- an apache
who helped young Benauld to commit the crime, and who
was conveniently put out of the way afterwards.'
'But the hair round the dagger? The woman's hair?'
'Ah!' said Poirot, smiling broadly. 'That is the cream of
Giraud's little jest. According to it is not a woman's
hair at all Remember that the youths of today wear their
hair brushed straight back from the forehead with pomade or
hair wash to make it lie flat. Consequently some of the hairs
are of considerable length.'
'And you believe that too?'


'No,' said Po[rot, with a curious smile. 'For I know it

to be the hair ora woman- and more, which woman!'
'Madame Daubreuil,' I announced positively.

'Perhaps,' said Poirot쩯garding me q,,Jz-ically. But I
refused to allow myself to get annoyed.

'What are we going to do now?' I asked, as we entered
the hall of the Villa Genevi.ve.

'I wish to make a search among the effects of M. Jack
Renauld. That is why I had to get him out of the way for a
few hours.'

Neatly and methodically, Poirot opened each drawer in
turn, examined the contents, and returned them exactly to
their places. It was a singularly dull and uninteresting pro-ceeding.
Poirot waded on through collars, pyjamas, and
socks. A purring noise outside drew me to the window.
Instantly I became galvanized into life.

' Poirot!' I cried. 'A car has just driven up. Giraud is in it,
and Jack Renauld, and two gendarmes.'

'Sacrd tonnerre!' growled Poirot. 'That animal of a
Giraud, could he not wait? I shall not be able to replace the
things in this last drawer with the proper method. Let us be
quick.'

Unceremoniously he tumbled out the things on the floor,
mostly ties and handkerchiefs. Suddenly with a of tri-umph
Poirot pounced on something, a small square ofeard-board,
evidently a photograph. Thrusting it into his pocket,
he returned the things pell-mell to the drawer, and seizing
me by die arm dragged me out of the room and down the
stairs. In the hall stood Giraud, contemplating his prisoner.

'Good afternoon, Monsieur Giraud,' said Poirot. 'What
have we here?'

Giraud nodded his head towards Jack.

'He was trying to make a getaway, but I was too sharp
for Mm. He's under an'est for the murder of his father,
Monsieur Paul Renauld.'


Poirot wheeled round to confront the boy, who was leaning
limply against the door, his face ashy pale.
'What do you say to that,]eune ho, time?'
Jack Renauld stared at him stonily.
'Nothing,' he said.

144


CHAPTER 19


I
	USE MY GREY CELLS


I WAS dumbfounded. Up to the last, I had not been able to
bring myself to believe Jack Renauld guilty. I had expected
a ringing proclamation of his innocence when Poirot chal-lenged
him. But' now, watching him as he stood, white and
limp against the wall, and hearing the damning admission

fall from his lips, I doubted no longer.

But Poirot had turned to Giraud.

'What are your grounds for arresting him?'
'Do you expect me to give them to you?'
'As a matter of courtesy, yes.'

Giraud looked at him doubtfully. He was torn between
a desire to refuse rudely and the pleasure of triumphing over
his adversary.

' You think I have made a mistake, I suppose?' he sneered.

'It would not surprise me,' replied Poirot, with a SOUl, On
of malice.

Giraud's face took on a deeper tinge of red.

'Eh bien, come in here. You shall judge for yourself.'

He flung open the door of the salon, and we passed in,
leaving Jack Renauld in the care of the two other men.

'Now, Monsieur Poirot,' said Giraud, hying his hat on
the table, and speaking with the utmost sarcasm, 'I will treat
you to a little lecture on detective work. I will show how we
moderns work.'

'Bien!' said Poirot, composing himself to listen. 'I will
show you how admirably the Old Guard can listen.' And
he leaned back and closed his eyes, opening them for a
moment to remark: 'Do not fear that I shall sleep. I will
attend most carefully.'


'Of course,' began Giraud, 'I soon saw through all that
Chilean tomfoolery. Two men were in it- but they were not
mysterious foreigners! All that was a blind.'

'Very creditable so far, my dear Giraud,' murmured
Poirot. 'Especially after that clever trick of theirs with the
match and cigarette end.'

Giraud glared, but continued.

'A man must have been connected with the case, in order
to dig the grave. There is no man who actually benefits by
file crime, but there was a man who thought he would benefit.
I heard of Jack Renauld's quarrel with his father, and of the
threats that he had used. The motive was established. Now
rts to means. Jack Renauld was in Merlinville that night. He
concealed the fact - which turned suspicion into certainty.
Then we found a second victim- stabbed with the same dag-ger.
We know when that dagger was stolen. Captain Hast-ings
here can fix the time. Jack Renauld, arriving from
Cherbourg, was the only person who could have taken it.
I have accounted for all the other members of the house-hold.'

Poirot interrupted.

'You are wrong. There is one other person who could
have taken the dagger.'

'You refer to Monsieur Stonor? He arrived at the front
door, in an automobile which had brought him straight from
Calais. Ah! believe me, I have looked into everything.
Monsieur Jack Benauld arrived by train. An hour elapsed
between his arrival and the moment when he presented him-self
at the house. Without doubt, he saw Captain Hastings
and his companion leave the shed, slipped in himself and

took the dagger, stabbed his accomplice in the shed --'
'Who was already dead!'
Giraud shrugged his shoulders.

'Possibly he did not observe that. He may have judged
him to be sleeping. Without doubt they had a rendezvous.


In any case he knew this apparent second murder would
greatly complicate the case. It did.'

'But it could not deceive Monsieur Giraud,' murmured
Poirot.

'You mock at me! But I will give you one last irrefutable
proof. Madame Renauld's story was false- a fabrication
from beginning to end. We believe Madame Renauld to have
loved her husband -yet sfie lied to shield his murderer. For
whom will a woman lie? Sometimes for herself, usually for
the man she loves, always for her children. That is the last-the
irrefutable proof. You cannot get round it.'

Giud paused flushed and triumphant. Poirot regarded
him steadily.

'That is my cases' said Giraud. ' What have you to say to
it?'
' Only that there is one thing you have failed to take into

accotlnt,j

' What is that ?'

'Jack Ftenauld was presumably acquainted with the plan-ning
out of the golf course. He knew that the body would
be discovered almost at onee when they started to dig the
bunker.'

Giraud laughed out loud.

'But it is idiotic what you say there! He wanted the body
to be found! Until it was found, he could not presume death
and would have been unable to enter into his inheritance.'

I saw a quick flash of green in Poiroes eyes as he rose to
his feet.

'Then why bury it?' he asked very sgftly. 'Reflect,
Giraud. Since it was to Jack Renauld's advantage that the
body should he found without delay, w/iv dig a grava at all?'

Giraud did not reply. The question found him unpre-pared:
He shrugged his shoulders as though to intimate that
it was of no importance.

Poirot moved towards the door. I followed him.


147


'There is one more thing that you have failed to take into
account,' he said over his shoulder.
'What is that?'
'The piece of lead piping,' said Poirot, and left the room.
Jack Benauld still stood in the hall, with a white dumb
face, but as we came out of the salon he looked up sharply.
At the same moment there was the sound ora footfall on the
staircase. Mrs Renauld was descending it. At the sight of her
son, standing between the two,myrmidons of the law, she
stopped as though petrified.
'Jack,' she faltered. 'Jack, what is this?'
He looked up at her, his face set.
'They have arrested me, mother.'
'What?'
She uttered a piercing cry, and before anyone could get to
her, swayed, and fell heavily. We both ran to her and lifted
her up. In a minute Poirot stood up again.
'She has cut her head badly, on the corner of the stairs. I
fancy there is slight concussion also..If Giraud wants a
statement from her, he will have to wait. She will probably
be unconscious for at least a week.'
Denise and Fran;oise had run to their mistress, and leaving
her in their charge Poirot left the house. He walked with
his head down, frowning thoughtfully. For some time I did
not speak, but at last I ventured to put a question to him:
'Do you believe then, in spite of all appearances to the
contrary, that Jack Benauld may not be guilty?'
Poirot did not answer at once, but after a long wait he said
gravely:
'I do not know, Hastings. There is just a chance of it. Of
course Giraud is all wrong- wrong from beginning to end.
If Jack Benauld is guilty, it is in spite of Giraud's arguments,
not because of them. And the gravest indictment against him
is known only to me.'
'What is that?' I asked, impressed.
I48


'If you would use your grey cells, and see the whole case
clearly as I do, you too would perceive it, my friend.'
This was what I called one of Poirot's irritating answers.
He went on, without waiting for me to speak:
'Let us walk this way to the sea. We will sit on that little
mound there, overlooking the beach, and review the case.
You shall know all thag I know, but I would prefer that you
should come at the truth by your own efforts - not by my
leading you by the hand.'
We established ourselves on the grassy knoll as Poirot had
suggested, looking out to sea.
'Th in lq my friend,' aid Poirot's voice encouraglngly.
'Arrange your ideas. Be methodical Be orderly. There is the secret Of success.'
I endeavoured to obey him, casting my mi'nd back over all the details of the case. And suddenly I started as an idea
of bewildering luminosity shot into my brain. Tremblingly
I built up my hypothesis.
'You have a little idea, I see, mort arn/.t Capital. We pro-

I sat up, and lit a pipe.
'Poirot,' I said, 'it seems to me we have been strangely
remiss. I say we- although I dare say I would be nearer the
mark. But you must pay the penalty of your determined
secrecy. So I say again we have been strangely remiss. There
is someone we have forgotten.'
'And who is that?' inquired Poi:or, with twinkling eyes.
' Georges Conneaul'

I49


CHAPTER 20

AN AMAZING STATEMENT

Tm next moment Poirot embraced me warmly on the
cheek.
'Enfin/ You have arrived! And all by yourself. It is
superb! Continue your reasoning. You are right. Decidedly
we have done wron to forget Georges Conneau.'
I was so flattered gy the little man's approval that I could
hardly continue. But at last I collected my thoughts and went OI1.
'Georges Conneau disappeared twenty years ago, but we
have no reason to believe that he is dead.'
'/lucunement,' agreed Poirot. 'Proceed.'
'Therefore we will assume that he is alive.'
'Exactly.'
'Or that he was alive until recently.'
'De rnleux en mieux I'
'We will presume,' I continued, my enthusiasm rising,
'that he has fallen on evil days. He has become a criminal,
an apache, a tramp - a what you will. He chances to come to
Merlinville. There he finds the woman he has never ceased to love.'
'Eh ell! The sentimentality,' warned Poirot.
' g"here one hates one also loves,' I quoted or misquoted.
'At any rate he finds her there, living under an assumed
name. ]ut she has a new lover, the Englishman, Renauld.
Georges Conneau, the memory of old wrongs rising in him,
quarrela with this Renauld. He lies in wait for him as he
comes to visit his mistress, and stabs him in the back. Then,
terrified at what he has done, he starts to dig a grave. I imagine
it likely that Madame Daubreuil comes out to look for


her lover. She and Conneau have a terrible scene. He drags
her into the shed, and there suddenly falls down in an epileptic
fit. Now supposing Jack Renauld to appear. Madame
Daubreuil tells him all, points out to him the dreadful consequences
to her daughter if this scandal of the past is revived.
His father's murderer is dead - let them do their best
to hush it up. Jack Renauld consents- goes to the house
and has an interview with his mother, winning her over to
his point .of view. Primed with the story that Madame
Daubreuil has suggested to him, she permits herself to be
gagged and bound. There, Poirot, what do you think of
that?' I leaned back, flushed with the pride of successful reconstruction.
Poirot looked at me thoughtfully.
'I think that you should write for the Kinema mon amf,'
he remarked at last.
 You mean'
'It would mean a good film, the story that you have recounted
to me there- but it bears no sort of resemblance to
everyday life.'
'I admit that I haven't gone into all the details, but --'
'You have gone farther- you have ignored them magnificently.
What about the way the two men were dressed?
Do you suggest that after stabbing his victim, Conneau removed
his suit of clothes, donned it himself, and replaced
the dagger?'
'I don't see that that matters,' I objected rather huffily.
'He may have obtained clothes and money fromMadame
Daubreuil by threats earlier in the day.'
'By threats - eh? You seriously advance, that supposition?'
'Certainly. He could have threatened m reveal her
identity to the Renaulds, which would probably have put an
end to all hopes of her daughter's marriage.'
'You are wrong) Hastings. He could not blackmail her,


for she had the whip-hand. Georges Conneau, remember,
is still wanted for murder. A word from her and he is in
danger of the guillotine.'

I was forced, rather reluctantly, to admit the truth of this.

'Your theory,' I remarked acidly, 'is doubtless correct as
to all the details ?'

'My theory is the truth,' said Poirot quietly. 'And the
truth is necessarily correct. In your theory you made a
fundamental error. You permitted your imagination to lead
you astray with midnight assignations and passionate love
scenes. But in investigating crime we must take our stand
upon the commonplace. Shall I demonstrate my methods to
you ?'

'Oh, by all means let us have a demonstration!'

Poirot sat very upright and began wagging his forefinger
emphatically to emphasize his points:

'I will start as you started from the basic fact of Georges
Conneau. Now the story told by Madame Beroldy in court
as to the "Russians" was admittedly a fabrication. If she was
innocent of connivance in the crime, it was concocted by her,
and by her only as she stated. Ifs on the other hand, she was
not innocent, itmight have been invented by either her or
Georges Conneau.

'Now, in this case we are investigating, we meet the same
tale. As I pointed out to you, the facts render it very unlikely
flat Madame Daubreuil inspired it. So we turn to the hypo-thesis
that the story had its origin in the brain of Georges
Conneau. Very good. Georges Conneau, therefore, planned
the crime, with Mrs Renauld as his accomplice. She is in the
limelight, and behind her is a shadowy figure whose present
alias is unknown to us.

'Now let us go carefully over the Renauld Case from the
beginning, setting down each significant point in its chrono-logical
order. You have a notebook and pencil? Good. Now
what is the earliest point to note down?'


'The letter to you ?'

'That was the first we knew of it, but it is not the proper
beginning of the case. The first point of any significance, I
should say, is the change that came over Monsieur Renauld
shortly after arriving in Meflinville, and which is attested to
by several witnesses. We have also to consider his friend-ship
with Madame Dauhreuil, and the large sums o pounds oney
paid over to her. From thence we can come directly to the
23rd May.'

Poirot paused, cleared his throat, and signed to me to
write:

',3rd May. M. Renauld quarrels with his son over lat-ter's
wish to marry Marthe Daubreuil. Son leaves for Paris.

'24tt[ May. M. Benauld alters his will leaving entire con-trol
of his fortune in his wife's hands.

'Tth June. Quarrel with tramp in garden, witnessed by
Marthe Daubreuil.


	Letter written to M. Hercule Poirot, imploring assistance.

' Telegram sent to M. Jack Renauld, bidding him proceed
by the Atnora to Buenos Ayres.

' Chauffeur, Masters, sent off on a holiday.

'Visit of a lady that evening. As he is seeing her out,

words are "Yes, yes- but for Go&s sake go now ....

Poirot paused.

'There, Hastings, take each of those facts one by one,
consider them carefully by themselves and in relation to the
whole, and see if you do not get new light on the matter.'

I endeavoured conscientiously to do as he had said. After
a moment or two, I said rather doubtfully:

'As to the first points, the question seems to be whether
we adopt the theory of blackmail, or of an infatuation for
this woman.'

' Blackmails decidedly. You heard what Stonor aid as to
his character and habits.'

' Mrs Renauld did not confirm his view] I argued.


'We have already seen that lVla-dame Renauld's testimony cannot be relied upon in any way. We must trust to Stonor
on that point.*
'Still, if Renauld had an affair with a woman called Bella,
there seems no inherent improbability in his having another
with Madame Daubreuil.'
'None whatever, I grant you, Hastings. But did he?'
'The letter, Poirot. You forget the letter.'
' No, I do not forget. But what makes you think that letter
was written to Monsieur lenauld ?'
'Why, it was found in his pocket, and - and --'
'And that is all!' cut in Poirot. 'There was no mention
of any'name to show to whom the letter was addressed. We
assumed it was to the dead man because it was in the pocket
of his overcoat. Now, mon ami, something about that overcoat
struck me as unusual. I measured it and made the remark
that he wore his overcoat very long. That remark should
have given you to think.'
'I thought you were just saying it for the sake of saying
something,' I confessed.
'Ah, quelle iddel Later you observed me measuring the
overcoat of Monsieur Jack Benauld. Eh bien, Monsieur Jack
Renanld wears his overcoat vet}; short. Put those two facts
together with a thirds namely, 'that Monsieur Jack Renauld
flung out of the house in a hurry on his departure for Pads,
and tell me what you make of it!"
'I see,' I said slowly, as the meaning of Poirot's remarks
bore in upon me. 'That letter was written to Jack Renauld
- not to his father. He caught up the wrong overcoat in his
haste and agitation.'
Poirot nodded.
'Prdcidrnent! We can return to this point later. For the
moment let us content ourselves with accepting the letter
as having nothing to do with Monsieur Renanld tre, and pass to the next chronological event.'
x j4


' "23rdMay."' I read:' "M. Benauld quarrels with his
son over latter's wish to marry Marthe DaubreuiL Son
leaves for Paris." I don't see anything much to remark upon
there, and the altering of the will the following day seems
straightforward enough. It was the direct result of the
quarrel.'
'We agree, mon am- at least as to the cause. But what
exact motive underlay this procedure of Monsieur Ren-auld's?'
I opened my eyes in surprise.
'Anger against his son of course.'
'Yet he wrote him affectionate letters to Paris ?'
'So ]ack Renauld says, but he cannot produce them.'
'Welt, let us pass from that.'
'Now we eorae to the day of the tragedy. You have
placed the event of the morning in a certain order. Have
you any justification for that?'
'I have ascertained that the letter to me was posted at the
same time as tile telegram was dispatched. Masters was informed
he could take a holiday shortly afterwards. Ia my
opinion the quarrel with the tramp took place anterior to
these happenings'
'I do not see that you can fix that definitely unless you
question Mademoiselle Daubreuil again.'
'There is no need. I am sure of it. And if you do not see that, you see nothing, Hastings?
I looked at him for a moment.
'Of course! I am an idiot. If the tramp was Geozl
Conneau, it was after the stormy interview with him that Mr
Renauld apprehended danger. He sent away the ehautL*ur,
Masters, whom he suspected of being in the other's pay, he
wired to his son, and sent for you.'
A faint smile crossed Poirot's lips.
'You do not think it strange that he should use exactly the same expressions in his letter as Madame Renauld used,


later in hr story? If the mention of Santiago was a blind,
why should Renauld speak of it, and- what i more - send
his son there?'

'It is puzzling, I admit, but perhaps we shall find some
explanation later. We come now to the evening, and the
visit of the mysterious lady. I confess that that fairly baffles
me, unless it was indeed Madame Daubreuil, as Franoise all
along maintained.'

Poirot shook his head.

'My friend, my friend, where are your wits wandering?
Bemember the fragment of cheque, and the fact that the
name Bella Duveen was faintly familiar to Stonor, and I
think we may take it for granted that Bella Duveen is the full
name of Jack's unknown correspondent, and that it was she
who came to the Villa Geneviave that night. Whether she
intended to see Jack, or whether she meant all along to
appeal to his father, we cannot be certain, but I think we may
assume that this is what occurred. She produced her claim
upon Jack, probably showed letters that he had written her,
and the older man tried to buy her off by writing a cheque.
This she.indignantly tore up. The terms of her letter are
those ora woman genuinely in love, and she would probably
deeply resent being offered money. In the end he got rid of
her, and here the words that he used are significant.'

'"Yes, yes, but for God's sake go now",' I repeated.
'They seem to me a little vehement, perhaps, that is all.'

'That is enough. He was desperately anxious for the girl
to go. Why? Not because the interview was unpleasant. No,
it was the time that was slipping by, and for some reason
time was precious.'

'Why should it be?' I asked, bewildered.

'That is what we ask otirselves. Why should it be? But
later we have the inddent of the wristwatch- which again
shows us that time plays a very important part in the crime.
We are now fast approaching the actual drama. It is half


past ten when Bella Duveen leaves, and by the evidence of
the wristwatch we know that the crime was committed, or at
any rate that it was staged, before twelve o'clock. We have
reviewed all the events anterior to the murder, there remains
only one unplaced. By the doctor's evidence, the tramp,
when found, had been dead at least forty-eight hours - with
a possible margin of twenty-four hours more. Now, wid
no other facts to help me than those we have discussed, I
place the death as having occurred on the morning of 7th

J

une.

I stared at him, stupefied.

'But how? Why? How can you possibly know?'
'Because only in that way can the sequence of events be
logically explained. Mon ami, I have taken you step by step
along the way. Do you not now see what is so glaringly
plain?'

'My dear Poirot, I can't see anything glaring about it.
I did think I was beginning to see my way before, but I'm
now hopelessly fogged. For goodness' sake, get on, and tell
me who killed Mr Benauld.'

'That is just what I am not sure of as yet.'

'But you said it was glaringly clear?

'We talk at cross-purposes, my friend. Remember, it is
o crimes we are investigating- for which as I pointed out
to you, we have the necessary two bodies. There there, ne
vous impatlerttei ,vas/I explain all. To begin with, we apply
our psychology. We find three points at which Monsieur
Benauld displays a distinct change of view and action- three
psychological points therefore. The first occurs immediately
after arriving in Merlinville, the second after quarrelling with
his son on a certain subject, the third on the morning of 7th
June. Now for the three causes. We can attribute No x to
meeting Madame Daubreuil. No 2 is indirectly connected
with her, 'since it concerns a marriage between Monsieur
Renauld's son and her daughter. But the cause of No ) is


$7


	hidde from

	me as
	us. We had. to deduce it. Now, mon ami, let
	,  you a question: whom do we believe to have planned

	llllS Cl

	,Gme:

	warilrges Conneau,' I said doubtfully, eyeing Poirot

	'EXtly. Now Giraud laid it down as an axiom that a

	woma

	,-. lies to save herself, the man she loves, and her child.
	alnce
	.
	.
	tared are satisfied that it was Georges Cormeau who dic
	, e lie to her, and as Georges Conneau is no
	nenaul.

	' t Jack
	. . , it follows that the third case is out out of court.

	a -qually so. So we are forced to the second
	M,u,,4
	- that
	in oth Renauld lled for the sake of the man she loved- or

	to thaw컍ds, for the sake of Georges Conneau. You ag'ee

	"Ye8

	,,,. I admitted. It seems logical enough.'

	.,-. Madame Renauld loves Georges Conneau. Who,
	' The ,eorges onneau.

	,,, ramp.'
	x-lav
	.
Io,,,4 we any ewdence to show that Madame Renauld
	m.p.

	tlt
	.
	
[ongVes well then. Do not cling to theones where 즑ct no

, ,lpport them. Ask yoursel instead whom Madame

e.na? '.;a, love.'

,x,sn,,a.2k my head perplexed.
fReI
a oui, you know perfectly. Whom did Madame

	love so dearl,y,, that when she saw his dead body she
	I sa.in a swoon
,,,
	7! dumbfounded
pn.er
	sband?' I gaspd.
	'Her I
to call sband- or Georges Conneau whichever you like
v, tm myself.


' But it's impossible.'
'How "impossible".; Did we not agree just now that
Madame Daubreuil was in a position to blackmail Georges
Conneau?'
'Yes but --'
'And did she not very effectively blackmail MonsieUr
Benauld?'
'That may he true enough, but--'
"And is it not a fact that we know nothing of Monsieur
Benauld's youth and upbringing? That he springs suddenly
into existence as a French-Canadian exactly twenty-two
years ago?'
'All that is so,' I said more firmly'but you seem to me
to be overlooking one salient point.'
' What is that my friend ?'
'Why, we have admitted that Georges planned the crime.
That brings us to the ridiculous statement ehae,te1annedhis on murar!'
'/Et him, mon ami,' said Poirot placidly 'that is just what
he did dol'

179


CHAPTER


HERCULE POIROT ON THE CASE


IN a measured voice Poirot began his exposition.

'It seems strange to you, mort ami, that a man should plan
his own death? So strange, that you prefer to reject the
truth as fantastic, and to revert to a story that is in reality
ten times more impossible. Yes, Monsieur Renauld planned
his own death but there is one detail that perhaps escapes
you- he did not intend to die.'

I shook my head bewildered.

'But no, it is all most simple really,' said Poirot kindly.
'For the crime that Monsieur Benauld proposed a murderer
was not necessary, as I told you, but a body was. Let us re-construct,
.seeing events this time from a different angle.

'Georges C컍meau flies from justice- to Canada. There,
under an assumed name, he marries, and finally acquires a
vast fortune in South America. But there is a nostalgia upon
lfim for his own country. Twenty years have elapsed, he is
considerably changed in appearance, besides being a man of
such eminence that no one is likely to connect him with a
fugitive from justice many years ago. He deems it quite safe
to return. He takes up his headquarters in England, but
tends to spend the summers in France. And ill fortune, or
that obscure justice which shapesmen's ends and will not
allow flem to evade the consequences of theh' acts, takes him
to Merlinville. There, in the whole of France, is the one per-son
who is capable of recognizing him. It is, of course, a
gold mine to Madame Daubreuil, and a gold mine of which
she is not slow to take advantage. He is he[pless absolutely
in her power. And she bleeds him heavily.

'And then the inevitable happens. Jack Renauld falls jn


love with the beautiful girl he sees almost daily and wishes
to marry her. That rouses his father. At all costs, he will
prevent his son marrying the daughier of this evil woman.
Jack Benauld knows nothing of his father's past, but Madame
Renauld knows everything. She is a woman of great
force of character and passionately devoted to her husband.
They take counsel together. Renauld sees only one way of
escape- death. He must appear to die, in reality escaping to
another country where he will start again under an assumed
name and where Madame Renauld, having played the
widow's part for a while, can join him. It is essential that she
should have control of the money, so he alters his will. How
they meant to manage the body business originally, I do not
know- possibly an art student's skeleton and a fire- or
something of the kind, but long before their plans have matured
an event occurs which plays into their hands. A rough
tramp, violent and abusive, finds his way into the garden.
There is a struggle, B. enauld seeks to eject him, and suddenly
the tramp, an epileptic, falls down in a fit. He is dead.
Benauld calls his wife. Together they drag him into the
si:ed - as we know the event had occurred just outside-and
they realize the marvellous opportunity that has been
vouchsafed them. The man bears no resemblance to Benauld
but he is middle-aged, of a usual French type. That is
sufficient.
'I rather fancy that they sat on the bench up there, out of
earshot from the house, discussing matters. Their plan was
quickly made. The identification must rest solely on Madame
Benauld's evidence. Jack B. enauld and the chauffeur
(who had been with his master two years) must be got out of
the way. It was unlikely that the French women servants
would go near the body, and in any case ltenauld intended
to take measures to deceive anyone not likely to appreciate
details. Masters was sent off, a telegram dispatched to ]ack,
Buenos Ayres being selected to give credence to the story


that Renauld had decided upon. Having heard of me as a
rather obscure elderly detective, he wrote his appeal for help,
knowing that when I arrived, the production of the letter
would have a profound effect upon .the examining magistrate
- which, of course, it did.
' They dressed thebody of the tramp in a suit of Renauld's
and left his ragged coat and trousers by the door of the shed,
not daring to take them into the house. And then, to give
credence to the tale bladame Renauld was to tell, they drove
the aeroplane dagger through his heart. That night Renauld
will first bind and gag his wife, and then, taking a spade, will
dig a grave in that particular plot of ground where he knows
a- how do you call it? - bunkair? is to be made. It is essential
that the body should be found- Madame Daubreuil
must have no suspicions. On the other hand, if a little time
elapses, any dangers as to identity will be greatly lessened.j;
Then, Renauld will don the tramp's rags, and shuffle off to
tile station, where he will leave, unnoticed, by the
train. Since the crime will be supposed to have taken
place two hours later, no suspicion can possibly attach to
him.
'You see now his annoyance at the inopportune visit of
the girl, Bella. Every moment of delay is fatal to his plans.
He gets rid of her as soon as he can, however. Then, to
work! He leaves the front door slightly aiar to create the
impression that assassins left that way. He binds and gags
Madame Renauld, correcting his mistake of twenty-two
years ago, when the looseness of the bonds caused suspicion
to fall upon his accomplice, but leaving her primed with
essentially the same story as he had invented before, proving
the unconscious recoil of the mind against originality. The
night is chilly, and he slips on an overcoat over his under*
clothing, intending to cast it into the grave with the dead
man. He goes out by the window, smoothing over the
flower-bed carefully, and thereby furnishing the most posi-


five evidence against himself. He goes out on to the lonely

golf links, and he digs - And then --'

'Yes?'

'And then,' said Po;rot gravely, 'the justice that he has

so long eluded overtakes him. An unknown hand stabs him

in the back 	No
TM, Hastings, you understand what I

mean when I talk of two crimes. The first crime, the crime
that Monsieur Renauld, in his arrogances asked us.to investi-gate,
is solved. But behind it lies a deeper riddle. And to
solvi that will be difficult- since the criminal, in his wisdoms
has been content to avail himself of the devices prepared by
Renauld. It has been a particularly perplexing and baffling
mystery to solve.'

'You're marvellous, Po;rot,' I said, with admiration.
;Absolutely marvellous. No one on earth but you would
have done it!'

I think my praise pleased him. For once in his life he
looked almost embarrassed.

'That poor Giraud,' said Po;rot, trying unsuccessfully
to look modest. 'Without doubt it is not all stupidity. He
has had la mauvaise chance once or twice. That dark hair
coiled roundthe dagger, for instance. To say the least, it was
misleading.'

'To tell you the truth, Po;rot,' I said slowly, 'even now
I don't quite see- whose hair was it?'

'Madame Renauld's, of course. That is where la tnauvaise
chance came in. Her hair, dark originally, is almost com-pletely
silvered. It might just as easily have been a grey hair
- and then, by no conceivable effort could Giraud have per-suaded
himself it came from the head of ]ack Renauld! But
it is all of a piece; Always the facts must be twisted to fit the
theory!

'Without doubt, when Madame Penauld recovers, she
will speak. The possibility of her son being accused of the
murder never occurred to her. How should it, when she
x63


believed him safely at sea on board the .4nora? ,4! oil
uneJmrne, Hastings! What force, what self-command! She
only made one slip. On his unexpected return: "It does not
matter- nov." And no one noticed- no one realized the
significance of those words. What a terrible part she has had
to play, poor woman. Imagine the shock when she goes to
identify the body and, instead of what she expects, sees the
actual lifeless form of the husband she has believed miles
away by now. No wonder she fainted! But since then, de-spite
her grief and her despair, how resolutely she has played
her part and how the anguish of it must wring her. She can-not
say a word to set us on the track of the real murderers.
For her son's sake no one must know that Paul Renauld was
Georges Conneau, the criminal Final and most bitter blow,
she has admitted publicly that Madame Daubreuil was her
husband's mistress- for a hint of blackmail might be fatal to
her secret. How cleverly she dealt will the examining
magistrate when he asked her if there was any mystery in
her husband's past life. "Nothing so romantie I am sure,
monsieur.'" It was perfect, the indulgent tone, the soup.con
of sad mockery. At once Monsieur Hautet felt himself fool-ish
and melodramatic. Yes, she is a great womanl If she

loved a criminal, she loved him royally?

Poirot lost himself in contemplation.

'One thing more Poirot what about the piece of lead-piping?'

'You do not see? To disfigure the victim's face so that it
would be unrecognizable. It was that which first set me on
the right track. And that imbecile of a Giraud, swarming
all over it to look for match ends! Did I not tell you that a
clue of two foot long was quite as good as a due of two
inches? You see, Hastings, we must now start again. Who
killed Monsieur Renauld? Someone who was near He Villa
just before twelve o'clock that night someone who would
benefit by his death- the description fits Jack Renauld only


too well. The crime need not have been premeditated. And then the dagger!'
I started, I had not rlized that point.
' Of course,' I said, 'Mrs Renauld's dagger was the second
one we found in the tramp. There were two, then?'
'Certainly, and, since they were duplicates, it stands to
reason that Jack Renauld was the owner. But that would not
trouble me so much. In fact, I had a little idea as to that.
No, the worst indictment against him is again psychological
- heredity, mon ami, heredity! Like father, like son - Jack
Renauld, when all is said or done, is the son of Georges
Conneau.'
His tone was grave and earnest and I was impressed in
spite of myself.
'What is your little idea that you mentioned just now?' I
asked.
For answer, Poirot consulted his turnip-faced watch, and
then asked:
'What time is the afternoon boat from Calais ?'
'About five, I believe.'
'That will do very well. We shall just have time.'
'You are going to England?'
'Yes, my friend.'
'Why?'
'To find a possible - witness.'
'Who?'
With a rather peculiar smile upon his face, Poirot replied:
' Miss Bella Duveen.'
'But how will you find her - what do you know about
her?'
'I know nothing about her- but I can guess a good deal.
We may take it for granted that her name/s Bella Duveen
and since that name was faintly familiar to Monsieur Stonor,
though evidently not in connexion with the Renauld family,
it is probable that she is on the stage. Jack Renauld was a


young man with plenty ofmoney, and twenty years of age.
The stage is sure to have been the home of his first love. It
tallies, too, with Monsieur Benauld's attempt to placate her
with a cheque. I think I shall find her all right- especially
with the help
And he brought out the photograph I had seen him take
from Jack Benauld's drawer. 'With love from Bella' was
scrawled across the corner, but it waS not that which held
my eyes fascinated. The likeness was not first rate- but for
all that it was unmistakable to me. I felt a cold sinking, as
fiough some unutterable calamity had befallen me.
It was the face of Cinderella.


CHAPTER

I FIND LOVE

Foa a moment or two I sat as though frozen, the photograph
still in my hand. Then summoning all my courage to
appear unmoved, I handed it back. At the same time I stole a
quick glance at Poirot. Had he noticed anything? But to my
relief he did not seem to be observing me. Anything unusual
in my manner had certainly escaped him.
He rose briskly to his feet.
'We have no time to lose. We must make our departure
with all dispatch. All is well - the sea it will be calm!'
In the bustle of departure, I had no time for thinking, but
once on board the boat, secure from Poirot's observation, I
pulled myselftogether, and attacked the faLts dispassionately.
How much did Poirot know, and why was he bent on finding
this girl? Did he suspect her of having seen Jack Renauld
commit the crime? Or did he suspect -- But that was impossible!
The girl had no grudge against the elder Renauld,
no possible motive for wislfing his death. What had brought
her back to the scene of the murder? I went over the facts
carefully. She must have left the train at Calais where I
parted from her that day. No wonder I had been unable to
find her on the boat. If she had dined in Calais, and then
taken a train out to Merlinville, she would have arrived at the
Villa Genevieve just about-the time that Fransoise said.
What had she done when she left the house just /fter ten ?
Presumably either gone to an hotel, or returned to Calais.
And then? The crime had been committed on Tuesday
night. On Thursday morning she was once more in Merlinville.
Had she ever left France at all? I doubted it very much.
What kept her there - the hope of seeing Jack Renauld ? I
,c,7


had told her (as at the time we believed) that he was on the
high seas en route to Buenos Ayres. Possibly she was aware
that the ,4ora had not sailed. But to know that she must
have seen Jack. Was that what Poirot was after? Had Jack
Renauld, returning to see Marthe Daubreuil, come face to
face instead with Bella Duveen the girl he had heartlessly
thrown over?

I began to see daylight. If that were indeed the case, it
might furnish Jack with the alibi he needed. Yet under those
circumstances his silence seemed difficult to explain. Why
could he not have spoken out boldly? Did he fear for this
former entanglement of his to come to the ears of Marthe
Daubreuil? I shook my head, dissatisfied. The firing had
been harmless enough, a foolish boy-and-girl affair, and I
reflected cynically that the son of a millionaire was not likely
to be thrown over by a penniless French girl, who moreover
loved him devotedly, without a much graver cause.

Poirot reappeared brisk and smiling at Dover, and
our journey to London was uneventful. It was past nine
o'clock when we arrived, and I supposed that we should
return straight away to our rooms and do nothing till the
morning.

But Poirot had other plans.

'We must lose no time, raon ami. The news of the arrest
will not be in the English papers until the day after to-morrow,
but still we must lose no time.'

I did not quite follow his reasoning, but I merely asked
how he proposed to find the girl.

'You remember Joseph Aarons, the theatrical agent?
No? I assisted him in a little matter of a Japanese wresder.
A pretty little problem, I must recount it to you one day.
He, without doubt, will be able to put us in the way of find-ing
out what we want to know.'

It took us some time to run Mr Aarons to earth, and it
was after midnight when we finally managed it. He greeted

x68


Poirot with every evidence of warmth, and professed him-self
ready to,be of service to us in any way.

'There's not much about the profession I don't know,' he
said, beaming genially.

'Et blen, Monsieur Aarons, I desire to find a young girl
called Bella Duveen.'

' Bella Duveen. I know the name, but for a moment I
can't place it. What's her line?'

' That I do not know- but here is her photograph.'

Mr Aarons studied it for a moment, then his face
lighted.

'Got it!' He slapped his thigh. 'The Dulcibella Kids,

by the Lord!'

' The Dulcibella Kids?'

' That's it. They're sisters. Acrobats, dancers, and sngers.
Give quite a good little mm. They're in the provinces,
somewhere, I believe - if they're not resting. They've been
on in Paris for the last two or three weeks.'

' Can you find out for me exactly where they are?'

'Easy as a bird. You go home, and I'll send you round the
dope in the morning.'

With this promise we took leave of him. He was as good
as his word.. About eleven o'clock the following day, a
scribbled note reached us.

'The Dulcibella Sisters are on at the Palace in Coventry.
Good luck to you.'

Without more ado, we started for Coventry. Poirot
made no itaquiries at the theatre, but contented himself with
booking stalls for the variety performance that evening.

The show was wearisome beyond words - or perhaps it
was only my mood that made it seem so. Japanese families
ialanced themselves precariously, would-be fashionable
men, ia greenish evening dress and exquisitely slicked hair,
reeled off society patter and danced marvellously. Stout
prima donnas sang at the top of the human register, a comic


comedian endeavoured to be Mr George Robey and failed-signally.
At last the number went up which announced the Dulcibella
Kids. My heart beat sickeningly. There she was-there
they both were, the 'pair of them, one flaxen-haired,
one dark, matching as to size, with short fluffy' skirts and
immense 'Buster Brown' bows. Tk, ey looked a pair of extremely
piquant children. They began to sing. Tteir voices
were fresh and true, rather thin and music-hally, but attractive.
It was quite a pretty little turn. They danced neatly, and
did some clever.little acrobatic feats. The words of their
songs were crisp and catchy. When the curtain fell, there
was a full meed of applause. Evidently the Dulcibella Kids
were a success.
Suddenly I felt that I could remain no longer. I must get
out into the air. I suggested leaving to Poirot.
'Go by all means, mon am쥺 amuse myself, and will stay
to the end. I will rejoin you later.'
It was only a few steps from the theatre to the hotel. I
went up to the sitting-room, ordered a whisky and soda, and
sat drinking it, staring meditatively into the empty grate. I
heard the door open, and turned my head, thinking it was
Poirot. Then I jumped to my feet. It was Cinderella who--stood
in the doorway. She spoke haltingly, her breath coming
in little gasps.
'I saw you .in front. You and your friend. When you
got up to go, I was waiting outside and followed you.
Why are you here- in Coventry? What were you doing
there tonight? Is the man who was with you the - the
detective?'
She stood there, the cloak she had wrapped round her
stage dress slipping from her shoulders. I saw the whiteness
of her cheeks under the rouge, and heard the terror in her
voice. And in that moment I understood everything- under-

to


stood why Poirot was seeking her, and what she feared and

understood at last my own heart.. 

'Yes,' I said gently.

'Is he looking for- me'?' she half whispered.

Then, as I did not answer for a moment, she slipped down
by the big chair, and burst into violent bitter weeping.

I knelt down by her, holding her in my arms, and smooth-lng
the hair back from her face.

'Don't cry, child, don't cry, for God's sake. You're safe
here. I'll take care of you. Don't cry, darling. Don't cry. I

know - I know everything.'

'Oh, but you don't!'

'I think I do.' And after a moment, as her sobs grew
quieter, I asked: 'It was you who took the dagger, wasn't
it?'


	Yes.'

'That wa5 why you wanted rae to show you rotmd ? And

why you pretended to flint?'

Again she nodded.

'Why did you take the dagger?' I asked presently.

She replied as simply'as a dfild:

' I was afraid there might be finger-marks on it.'

' But didn't you remember that you had worn gloves?'

She shook her head as though bewildered, and then said
slowly:

'Are you going to give me up to - to the police?'
'Good God! no.'

Iter eyes sou0t mine long and earnestly, and then she

asked in a little quiet voice that sounded afraid of itself:

' Why not?'

It seemed a strange place and a strange time for a declara-tion
of love - and God kno's, in all my imagining, I had
never pictured love coming to me in such a guise. But I
answered simply and naturally enough:

'Because I love you, Cinderella.'

I7I


I

She bent her head down, aSthou?ugh ashamed, and muttered
in a broken voice:
You can t- you can t- not t, ouU knew -- And then, as
though rallying herself, she fat] .me squarely, and asked
'What do you know, then?' '" 	'
	'I
know that you came to seMr .r Renauld that night. He
offered you a cheque and you
	it up indignantly. Then

you left the house --' pauseo.
	' Go on - what next?'
'I don't know whether you kqew ., Jack Renauld would be
?ming that night, or whether/%, ;;lust waited about on the
chance of seeing him, but you i]'.vait about. Perhaps you
were just miserable and walked . 'lesslv- but at any rat-'
"Just 	.
I before twelve you were still ar there, and you saw a
man on the golf links --'
	ne
Again I paused. I had leap to the truth in a flash as
she entered the room, but nq!e tithe picture rose-before
me even more convincingly, t sa줿. vividly the peculiar
pattern of the overcoat on the tlead body of Mr Renauld,
and I remembered the amazinl like;eness that had startled
me into believing for one inst that the dead man had
risen from the dead when his Sobtmrst into our conclave in
the salon.
	' Go on,' repeated the girl ste=
	,
	
	'lily.'
	I fancy hs back was to you .,,r/t you recognized him,
	or thought you recognized him, ']e gait and the carriage

	were familiar to you, and the t..nrn of his overcoat' I
	a
	'
	. patt
	'
	p used. You used a threat n q ,of your letters to lack

	enauld. When you saw hun th%o ./ou anger and jealousy

	drove you mad- and you struck,'ont believe fora min
	ute that,you meant to kill hi. ut you did kill him,
Cindereha.'
	''
She had flung up her hands [ ccVer her face, and in a
choked voice she said:
	You re right.., you're righ
		I can see it all as you

		17:l


tell it.' Then.she turned on me almost savagely. 'And you
love me? Knowing what you do, how can you love me?'
'l don't know,' I said a little wearily. 'I think love is like
that- a thing one cannot help. I have tried, I know- ever
since the first day I met you. And love has been too strong
for me.'
And then suddenly, when I least expected it, she broke
down again, casting herself down on the floor and sobbing
wildly.
'Oh, I can't!' she cried. 'I don't know what to do. I
don't know'which way to mm. Oh, pity me, pity me, someone,
and tell me what to do!'
Again I knelt by her, soothing her as best I could.
'Don't be afraid of me, Bella. For God's sake don' be
afraid of me. I love you, that's true- but I don't want anything
in return. Only let me help you. Love him still if you
have to, but let me help you, as he can't.'
It was as though she had been turned to stone by my
words. She raised her head from her hands and stared at me.
'You think that?' she whispered. 'You thhzk that I love
Jack Benauld?'
Then, half laughing, half crying, she flung her arms
passionately round my neck, and pressed her sweet wet face
to mine.
'got as I love you,' she whispered. 'Never as I love you!'
Her lips brushed my cheek, and then, seeking my mouth,
kissed me again and again with a sweetness and fire beyond
belief. The wildness of it- and the wonder, I Shall not forget-
no, not as long as I live!
It was a sound in the doorway that made us look up.
Poirot was standing there looking at us.
I did not hesitate. With a bound I reached him and
'pinioned his arms to his sides.
'Quick,' I said to the girl. 'Get out of here. As fast as
you can. I'll hold him.'

x73


With one look at me, she fled out of the room past us. 1
held Poirot in a grip of iron.

'Mon ami,' observed the latter mildly, 'you do this sor,:
of thing very well. The strong man holds me in his grasp
and I am helpless as a child. But all this is uncomfortable and

slightly ridiculous. Let us sit down and be calm.'

'You won't pursue her?'

'Mon Dieu/no. Am I Giraud? Release me, my friend.'
Keeping a suspicious eye upon him, for I paid Poirot the
compliment of knowing that I was no match for him in
astuteness, I relaxed my grip, and he sank into an armchair,
feeling his arms tenderly.

'It is that you have the strength ora bull when you are
roused, Hastings! .Eh bien, and do you think you have be-haved
well. to your old friend? I show you the girl's photo-graph
and you recognize it, but you never say a word.'

'There was no need if you knew that I recognized it,' I
said rather bitterly. So Poirot had known all along! I had
not deceived him for an instant.

eta ta! You did not know that I knew that. And tonight
you help the girl to escape when we have found her with so
much rouble..Eh bien/it comes to this - are you going to
work with me or against m% Hastings?'

For a moment or two I did not answer. To break with
my old friend gave me great pain. Yet I must definitely
range myself against him. Would he ever forgive me, I
wondered ? He had been strangely calm so far but I knew
him to possess marvellous self-command.

'Poirot,' I said, 'I'm sorry. I admit I've behaved badly
to you over this. But sometimes one has no dmice. 'And in
future I must take my own line.'

Poii0t nodded his head several times.

'I understand,' he said. The mocking light had quite
died out of his eyes, and he spoke with a sincerity and kind-ness
that surprised me. 'It is that. my friend is it not? It is


I74


love that has come- not as you imagined it, all cock-a-hoop
with fine feathers, but sadly, with bleeding feet. Well, well I
warned you. When I realized that this gift must have taken
the dagger, I warned you. Perhaps you remember. But
already it was too late. But, tell me, how much do you
know?'
I met his eyes squarely.
'Nothing that you could tell me would be any surprise
to me, Poirot. Understand that. But in case you think of resuming
your search for Miss Duveen, I should like you to
know one fiing clearly: If you have may idea that she was
concerned in fize crime, or was the mysterious lady who
called upon Mr Benauld that night, you are wrong. I travelled
home from France with her that day, and parted from
her at Victoria that evening, so that it is clearly impossible
for her to have been in Merlinville.'
'Ah!' Poirot looked at me thoughtfully. 'And you would
swear to that in a court of law?'
'Most certainly I would.'
Poirot rose and bowed.
'Mon ami/l/ire l'amour,t It can perform miracle. It is
decidedly ingenious what you have thought of there. It
defeats even Hercule Poirot!'

175


CHAPTER 23

DIFFICULTIES AHEAD

AFT즂 a moment of stress, such as I have just described,
. reaction is bound to set in. I retired to rest that night on a
note of triumph, but I awoke to realize that I was by no
means out of the wood. True, i could see no flaw in the alibi
I had so suddenly conceived. I had but to stick to my story,
and I failed to see how Bella could be convicted in face of it.
BUt I felt the need of treading warily. Poirot would not
take defeat lying down. Somehow or other, he would endeavour
to turn the tables on me, and that in the way, and at
the moment, when I least expected it.
We met at breakfast the following morning as though
nothing had happened. Poirot's good temper was imperturbable,
yet I thought I detected a film of reserve in his
manner which was new. After breakfast, I announced my
intention of going out for a stroll. A malicious gleam shot
through Poirot's eyes.
'If it is information you seek, you need not be at the pains
of deranging yourself. I can tell you all you wish to know.
The Dulcibella Sisters have cancelled their contract, and have
lei Coventry for an unknown desfinatien.'
'Is that really so, Poirot?'
'You can take it from me, Hastings. I made inquiries the
first thing this morning. After all, what else did you expect?'
True enough, nothing else could be expected under the
circumstances. Cinderella had profited by the slight start I
had been able to secure her, and would certainly not lose a
moment in removing herself from the reach of the pursuer.
It was what I had intended and planned. Nevertheless, I was
aware of being plunged into a network of fresh difficulties.


I had absolutely no means of communicating with the girl,
and it was vital that she should know the line of defence that
had occurred to me, and which I was prepared to carry out.
Of course it was possible that she might try to send word
to me in some way or ano.ther, but I hardly thought it
likely. She would know the risk she ran of a message being
intercepted by Poirot, thus setting him on her track once
more. Clearly her only course was to disappear utterly for
the time being.

But, in the meantime, what was Poirot doing? I studied
him attentively. He was wearing his most innocent air, and
staring meditatively into the far distance. He looked alto-gether
too placid and supine to give me reassurance. I had
learned, with Poirot, that the less dangerous he looked, the
more dangerous he was. His quiescence alarmed me. Ob-serving
a troubled quality in my glan?, he smiled benign-antly.

'You are puzzled, Hastings? You ask yourself why I do
not launch myself in pursuit?'

'Well - something of the kind.'

'It is what you would do, were you in my place. I under-stand
that. But I am not Of those who enjoy rushing up and
down a country seeking a needle in a haystack, as you Eng-lish
say. No- let Mademoiselle Bella Duveen go. Without
doubt, I shall be able to find her when the time comes. Until
then, I am content to wait.'

I stared at him doubtfully. Was he seeking to mislead
me? I had an irritating feeling ..tl3at, even now, he was master
of the situation. My sense of superiority was gradually wan-ing.
I had contrived the girl's escape, and evolved a'brilliant
scheme for saving her from the consequences of her rash act
-but I could not rest easy in my mind. Poirot's perfect
calm awakened a thousand apprehensions.

'I suppose Poirot,' I said rather diffidently, 'I mustn't
ask what your plans are? I've forfeited the fight.'


x77


' But not at all There is no secret about them. We remm
to France without delay.'

'Precisely- "we"! You know very well that you cannot
afford to let Papa Poirot out of your sight. Eh? is it not so,
my friend? But remain in England by all means if you
wish --'
I shook my head. He had hit the nail on the head. I could
not afford to let him out of my Sight. Although I could not
expect his confidence after what had happened, I could still
check his actions. The only danger to Bella lay with him.
Giraud and the French police were indifferent to her existence.
At all costs I must keep near Poirot.
Poirot observed me attentively as these reflections passed
through my mind, and gave me a nod of satisfaction.
'I am right, am I not? And as you are quite 'capable of
trying to follow me, disguised with some absurdity such as a
false beard- which everyone would perceive, blen entenlu- I much prefer that we should voyage together. It would
annoy me greatly that anyone should mock themselves at
yOU.'
'Very well, then. But it's only fair to warn you --'
'I know- I know all. You are my enemy! Be my enemy
then. It does not worry me at alL'
'So long as it's all fair and above-board, I don't mind.'
'You have to the full the English passion for "fair play"l
Now your scruples are satisfied, let us depart immediately.
There is no time to be lost. Our stay in England has been
short but sufficient. I know- what I wanted to know.'
The tone was light, but I read a veiled menace into the
words.
'Still ' I began, and stopped.
'Still - as you sayl Without doubt you are satisfied with
the part you are playing. Me, I preoccupy myself with Jack
Renauld.'

I78


Jack Renauld! The words gave me a start. I had com-pletely
forgotten that aspect of the case. Jack Renauld, in
prison, with the shadow of the guillotine looming over him.
I saw the part I was playing in a more sinister light. I could
save Bella- yes, but in doing so I ran the risk of sending an
innocent man to his death.

I pushed the thought from me with horror. It could not
be. He would be acquitted. Certainly he would be acquitted.
But the cold fear came back. Suppose he were not? What
then? Could I have it on my conscience- horrible thought!
Would it come to that in the end? A decision. Bella or Jack
Renauld ? The promptings of my heart were to save the girl
I loved at any cost to myself. But, if the cost were to another
the problem was altered.

What would the girl herself say? I remembered that no
word of Jack Renauld's arrest had passed my lips. As yet
she was in total ignorance of the fact that her former lover was
in prison charged with a hideous crime which he had not
committed. When she knew, how would she act? Would
She permit her life to be saved at the expense of his? Cer-tainly
she must do nothing rash. Jack Renauld might, and
probably would, be acquitted without any intervention on
her part. If so, good. But if he was not! That was the ter-rible,
the unanswerable problem. I fancied that she ran no risk
of the extreme penalty. The circumstances of the crime were
quite different in her case. She could plead jealousy and ex-treme
provocation, and her youth and beauty would go for
much. The fact that by a tragic mistake it was Mr Renauld,
and not his so/b who paid the penalty would not alter the
motive 'of the crime. But in any case, however lenient the
sentence of the Court, it must mean a long term of ina-prisonment.

N% Bella must be protected. And, at the same time, jack
Renauld must be saved. How this was to be accomplished
I did not see clearly. But I pinned my faith to Poirot. He


I79


knew. Come what might, he would manage to save an inno-cent
man. He must find some pretext other than the real
one. It might be difficult, but he would manage it somehow.
And with Bella unsuspected, and Jack Renauld acquitted, all
would end satisfactorily.

So I told myself repeatedly, but at the bottom of my hem't
there still remained a cold fear.


18o


'SAVE HIMI'

WE crossed from England by the evening boat, and the
following morning saw us in St Omer, whither Jack Renauld
had been taken. Poirot lost no time in ,visiting M. Hautet.
As he did not seem disposed to make any objections to my
.accompanying him, I bore him company.
After various formalities and preliminaries, we were conducted
to the examining magistrate's room. He greeted us
cordially.
'I was told that you had returned to England, Monsieur
Poirot. I am glad to find that such is not the case.'
'It is true that I went there, monsieur, but it was only for
a flying visit. A side issue, but one that I fancied might repay
investigation.'
'And it did - eh?'
Poirot shrugged his shoulders. M. Hautet nodded,
sighing.
'We must resign ourselves, I fear. That animal Giraud,
his manners are abominable, but he is undoubtedly cleverl
Not much chance of that one making a mistake.'
'You think not?'
It was the examining magistrate's mm to shrug his
shoulders.
'Oh, well, speaking frankly - in confidence, of course can
you come to any other conclusion?'
'Frankly, there seem to me to be many points that are
obscure,'
'Such as --?'
But Poirot was not to be drawn.
'I have not yet tabulated them,' he remarked. 'It was a

I81


general reflection that I was making. I liked the young man,
and should be sorry to believe him gu. ilty of such a hideous
crime. By the way, what has he to say for himself on the
matter?'

The magistrate frowned.

'I cannot understand him. He seems incapable of putting
up any sort of defence. It has been most difficult to get him
to answer questions. He contents himself with a general
denial, and beyond that takes refuge in a most obstinate
silence. I am interrogating him again tomorrow, perhaps
would like to be present?'

We accepted the invitation with empressement.

'A distressing case,' said the magistrate with a sigh. 'My

sympathy for Madame Renauld is profound.'

' How is Madame Benauld ?'

'She has not yet recovered consciousness. It is merciful
in a way, poor woman, she is being spared much. The doc-tors
say that there is no danger, but that when she comes to
herself she must be kept as quiet as possible. It was, I under-stand,
quite as much the shock as the fall which caused
present state. It would be terrible if her brain became
hinged; but I should not wonder at all - no, really, not at
all.'

M. Hautet leaned back, shaking his head, with a sort of

mournful enjo3maent, as he envisaged the gloomy prospect.
He roused himself at length, and observed with a start:

'That reminds me. I have here a letter for you, Monsieur
Poirot. Let me see, where did I put it?'

He proceeded to rummage among his papers. At last he
found the missive, and handed it to Poirot.

'It was sent under cover to me in order that I might for-ward
it to you,' he explained. 'But as you left no address I
could not do so.

Poirot studied the letter curiously. It was addressed in a
long, sloping, foreign hand, and the writing was decidedly


a woman's. Poirot did not open it. Inst.ad he put it in his
pocket and rose to his feet.
'Till tomorrow then. Many thanks for Your courtesy and
amiability."

	But not at all. I am always at your service.,
We were just leavhag the building whorl we came face to
face with Giraud, looking'more dandified than ever, and
thoroughly pleased with himself.
'Aha! Monsieur Poirot,' he cried airily. 'You have re--
turned from England then?'
'As you see,' said Poirot.
'The end of the ease is not far off nor, I fancy.'
'I agree with you, Monsieur Giraud.'
Poirot spoke in a subdued tone. His crestfallen manner
semed to delight the other.
' Of all th milk-and-water criminals! Not an idea of
fending himself. It is extraordinary!'
'So extraordinary that it gives one to think, does it not?'
suggested Poirot mildly.
But Gimud was not even listening. -Ie twirled his cane
amicably.
'Well, good day, Monsieur Poirot. I am glad you're
satisfied of young Renauld's guilt at last.,
'Pardon.t But I am not in the least satisfied. Jack Reuauld
is innocent.'
Giraud stared for a moment- then burst out laughing,
tapping his head significandy with the brie remark: ' Toque/'
Ioirot drew himself up. A dangerous light showed in his
oyez.
'Monsieur Giraud, throughout the ease your manner to
me has been deliberately insulting. 쩭u need teaching a
lesson. I am prepared to wager you five hundred francs that
I find the murderer of Monsieur Renald before you do. Is
it agreed?'


Giraud stared helplessly at and murmured again:

'Come now,' urged Poirot, 'is it agreed?'
'I have no wish to take your money from you.'
'Mke your mind easy- you will not?
'Oh, well then I agreel You speak of my manner to you
being insulting. Well, once or twice, your manner has annoyed e.
'I am enchanted to hear it' said l)oirot. 'Good morning,
lfonsieur Giraud. Come, Hastings.'
I said no word as we walked along the street. My heart
was heavy. Poirot had displayed his intentions only too
plainly. I doubted more than ever my powers of saving
Bella from the consequences of her act. This unlucky encounter
with Giraud had roused Poirot and put him on his
mettle.
Suddenly I felt a hand laid on my shoulder, and turned to
face Gabriel Stonor. We stopped and greeted and he
proposed strolling with us back to our hotel.
'And what are you doing here, Monsieur $tonor?' inquired
Poirot.
'One must stand by one's friends,' replied the other
dryly. 'Especially when they are unjustly accused.'
'Then you do not believe that Jack Renauld committed
the crime?' I asked eagerly.
' Certainly I don't. I know the lad. I admit that there have
been one or we things in this business that have staggered
me completely, but none the less, in spite of his fool way of
taking it, I'll never believe that Jack Renauld is a murderer.'
My heart warmed to the secretary. His words seemed to
lift a secret-weight from my heart.
'I have no doubt that many people feel a you do,' I
exclaimed. 'There is really absurdly little evidence against
him. I should say that there was no doubt of his acquittal no
doubt whatever.'

I84


But Stonor hardly responded as I could have wished.
'I'd give a lot to think as you do,' he said gravely. He
turned to Poirot. 'What's your opinion, monsieur?'
'I think that things look very black against him,' said
Poirot quietly.
'You believe him guilty?' said Stonor sharply.
'No. But I think he will find it hard to prove his irmocence.'
'He's behaving so damned queerly,' muttered Stonor. ' Of
course, I realize that there's a lot more in this affair than
meets the eye. Giraud's not wise to that because he's an outsider,
but the whole thing has been damned odd. As to that,
least said soonest mended. If Mrs Renauld wants to hush
anything up, I'll take my cue from her. It's her show, and
I've too much respect for her judgement to shove my oar in,
but I can't get behind this attitude of Jack's. Anyone would
think he wanted to be thought guilty.'
'But it's absurd,' I cried, bursting in. 'For one thing, the
dagger--' I paused, uncertain as to how much Poirot
would wish me to reveal. I continued, choosing my words
carefully, 'We know that the dagger could not have been
in Jack Renauld's possession that evening. Mrs Benauld
knows that.'
'True,' said Stonor. 'When she recovers, she will doubtless
say all this and more. Well, I must be leaving you.'
'One moment.' Poirot's hand arrested his departure.
' Can you arrange for word to be sent to me at once should
Mrs Renauld recover consciousness?;
'Certainly. That's easily done.'
'That point about the dagger is good, Poirot,' I urged as
we went upstairs. 'I couldn't speak very plainly before
Stonor.'
'That was quite right of you. We might as well keep the
knowledge to ourselves as long as we cam As to the dagger,
your point hardly helps Jack Renauld. You remember that
x85


I was absent for an hour this morning, before we star/ed
from London?'
'Yes?'
'Well, I was employed in trying to find the firm ]ack
Renauld employed to convert his souvenirs. It was not very
difficult. Eh/5/eh, Hasting, they made to his order not two
paper knives, but ehree.'
' So that --'
'So that, after giving one to his mother and one to Belta
Duveen, there was a third which he doubtless retained for
his own use. No, Hastings, I fear the dagger question will
not help us to save him from the guillotine.'
'It won't come to that,' I cried, stung.
Poirot shook his head uncertainly.
'You will save him,' I cried positively.
Poirot glanced at me dryly.
' Have you not rendered it impossible, raon ami?' 'Some other way,' I muttered.
'Ah! Saavrt! But it is miracles you ask from me. No say
no more. Let us instead see what is in this letter.*
And he drew out the envelope from his breast pocket.
His face contracted as he read, then he handed the one
flimsy sheet to me.
'There are other women in the world who suffer, Hastings.'
The writing was blurred and the note had evidently been
written in great agitation.
Dm' M. Pomcrr,- If you get this, Ibeg of you to
come to my aid. I have no one to turn to, and at all costs
Jack must be saved. I implore of you on my knees to help
us.

I handed it bat. lq moved.
'You will go?'


-- 'At once. We will command an auto.'
Half an hour later saw us at the Villa Marguerite. Marthe
was at the door to meet us, and let Poirot in, clinging with
both hands to one of his.
'Ah, you have come - it is good of you. I have been in
despair, not knowing what to do. They will not let me go to
see him in prison even. I suffer horribly. I am nearly mad.
'Is it true what they say, that he does not deny the crime?
But that is madness. It is impossible that he should have
done it! Never for one minute will I believe it.'
'Neither do I believe it, mademoiselle,' said Poirot
gently.
'But then why does he not speak? I do not understand.'
'Perhaps because he is screening someone,' suggested
Poirot, watching her.
Marthe frowned.
'Screening someone? Do you mean his mother? Ah,
from the beginning I have suspected her. Who inherits all
that vast fortune? She does. It is easy to wear widow's
weeds and play the hypocrite. And they say that when he
was arrested she fell down like that!' She made a dramatic
gesture. 'And without doubt, Monsieur Stonor, the secretary,
he helped her. They are thick as thieves, those two. It
is true she fs older than he - but what do men care - if a
woman is rich?
There was a hint of bitterness in her tone.
'Stonor was in England,' I put in.
'He says so- but who knows?'
'Mademoiselle,' said Poirot quietly, 'if we are to work together,
you and I, we must have things clear. First, I will ask
you a question.'
'Yes, monsieur?'
'Are you aware of your mother's real name?'
Marthe looked at him for a minute, then, letting her head
fall forward on her arms, she burst into tears.
187


,
	.',Tlre, there,' said Poirot, patting her on the shoulder.
t..am) yourself,/t/te, I see that you know. Now a seo,, nd

quesnn- did you know who Monsieur Renauld was?

'Mnsieur Renauld,' she raised her head from her hands
and ged at him wonderingly.

'Ah, I see you do not know that. Now listen to me care-fully.'

Stel by step, he went over the casa, much as he had dong
to me on the day of our departure for England. Marthe
listen spellbound. When he had finished, she drew a long
breath.

' But you are wonderful - magnificent! You are the great-est
detfive in the world.'

With a swift gture she slipped off her chair and lmelt
before im with an abandonment that was wholly French.

'SaVe him, monsieur,' she cried. 'I love him so. Oh,
save him: save him- save him!'


I88


CHAPTER 25


AN UNEXPECTED DINOUEMENT


3?ff- were present the following momlng at the examination
of Jack Renauld. Short as the time had been, I was shocked
at the change that had taken place in the young prisoner.
His cheeks had fallen in, there were deep black circles round
his eyes, and he looked haggard and distraught, as one who
had wooed sleep in vain for several nights. He betrayed no
emotion at seeing us.

'Renauld,' began the magistrate 'do you deny that you
were in Merlinville on the night of the crime?'

Jack did not reply at once, then he said with a hesitancy of
manner which was piteous:

'I- I- told you that I was in Cherbourg.'
The magistrate turned sharply.
 Send in the station wimesses.'

In a moment or two the door opened to admit a man

whom I recognized as being a porter at Merlinville station.
'You were on duty on the night of 7th June?'
' Yes monsieur.'

 You witnessed the arrival of the x 1.4o train ?'

' Yes, monsieur.'

'Look at the prisoner. Do you recognize him as having

been one of the passengers to alight?'

' Yes monsieur.'

'There is no possibility of your being mistaken?'
'No, monsieur. I know Monsieur Jack Renauld well.'
'Nor of your being mjslen as to the date?'

'No, monsieur. Because it was the following morning,
$th June, that we heard of the murder.'

Another railway o14 was brought in, and conmed


the fit one's evidence. The magistrate looked at ]'ack
Renauld.

'These men have identified you positively. What have
you to say?'

Jack shrugged his shoulders.

'Nothing.'

'Renauld,' continued the magistrate, 'do you recognize
this?'

He took something from the table by his side and held it
out to the prisoner. I shuddered as I recognized the aero-plane
dagger.

'Pardon,' cried Jack's counsel, Maitre Grosier. 'I de-mand
to speak to my client before he answers that question.'

But Jack Benauld had no consideration for the feelings of
the wretched Grosier. He waved him aside, and replied
quietly:

' Certainly I recognize it. It was a present given by me to
my mother, as a souvenir of the war.'

'Is there, as far as you know, any duplicate of that dagger
in existence?'

Again Maitre Grosier burst out, and again Jack overrode
him.

'Not that I know of. The setting was my own design.'
Even tl3e magistrate almost gasped at the boldness of the
reply. It did, in very truth, seem as though Jack was rushing
on his fate. I realized, of course, the vital necessity he was
under of concealing, for Bella's sake, the fact that there was a
duplicate dagger in the case. So long as there was supposed
to be only one weapon, no suspicion was likely to attach to
the girl wh컃ad had the second paper-knife in her posses-sion.
He 'was valiantly shielding the woman he had once
loved - but at what cost to himselfl I began to realize the
magnitude of the task I had so lightly set Poirot. It would
not be easy m secure the acquittal of Jack Renauld by any-thing
short of the wuth.


M. Hautet spoke agair with a peculiarly biting inflection:
'Madame B. enauld told us that this dagger was on her
dressing-table on the night of the crime. But Madame
lenauld is a mother! It will doubtless astonish you, lenauld,
but I consider it highly likely that ldame Renauld
was mistaken, and that, by inadvertence perhaps, you had
taken it with you to Paris. Doubtless you will contradict

I saw the lad's handcuffed hands clench themselves. The
perspiration stood out in beads upon his bro% as with a
supreme effort he interrupted M. Hautet in a hoarse voice:
'I shall not contradict you. It is possible.'
It was a stupefying moment. Maitre Grosier rose to his
feet protesting:
'My client has undergone a considerable nervous strain.
I should wish it put on record that I do not consider him
answerable for what he says.'
The magistrat quelled him angrily. For a moment a
doubt seemed to arise in his own mind. Jack Renauld had
almost overdone his part. He leaned forward, and gazed at
the prisoner searchingly.
'Do you fully understand, Renauld, that on the answers
you have given me I shall have no alternative but tO commit
you for trial?'
Jack's pale face flushed. He looked steaclily hack.
'Monsieur Hautet, I swear that I did not kill my father:
But the roagistrate's brief moment of doubt was over. He
laughed a short unpleasant laugtu
'Without doubt, without doubt - they are always innocent,
our prisoners! By your own mouth you are condemned.
You can offer no defence, no alibi- only a mere
assertion which would not deceive a babel- that you are not
guilty. You illed your father, Renauld - a emel and
cowardly murder - for the sake, of the money which you


believed would come to you at his death. Your mother was an
accessory after the fact. Doubtless, in view of the fact that
she acted as a mother, the courts will extend an indulgence
to her that they will not accord to you. And rightly so!
Your crime was a horrible one- to be held in abhorrence by
gods and men!'

bi. Hautet was interrupted - to his intense annoyance.
The door was pushed open.

'Ivlonsieur le juge, Monsieur le juge,' stammered the
attendant,' there is a lady who says - who says --'

'Who says what?' cried the justly incensed magistrate.
'This is highly irregular. I forbid it- I absolutely forbid it.'

But a slender figure pushed the stammering gendarme
aside: Dressed all in black, with a long vdl that hid her face,
she advamed into the room.

My heart gave a sickening throb. She had come ten! All
my effoi'ts were in vain. Yet I could not but admire the
courage that had led her to take this step so unfalteringly.

She raised her veil - and I gasped. For, though as like
her as two peas, this girl was not Cinderella! On the other
hand, now that I saw her without the fair wig she had worn
on the stage, I recognized her as the girl of the photograph
in Jack Benauld's room.

'You are the Juge d'Instrucfion, Monsieur Hautet?' she
queried.

'Yes, but I forbid --'

'My name is Bella Duveen. I v4sh to give myself up fo
the murder of Mr Benauld.'


C)-I 28

I RECEIVE A LETTER

'MY friend, - You will know all when you get this. Nothing
that I can say will move Bella. She has gone out to give
herself up. I am tired out with struggling.
' You will know now that I deceived you, that where you
gave me trust I repaid you with lies. It will seem) perhaps,
indefensible to you, but I should like, before I go out of
your life for ever) to show you just how it all came about. iF i knew that you forgave me it would make life easier for
me. It wasn't for myself I did it- that's the only thing I can
put forward to say for myself.
'I'll begin from the day I met you in the boat train from
Paris. I was uneasy then about Bena. She was just desperate
about Jack Renauld she'd have lain. down on the ground
for him to walk on, and when he began to change, and to
stop writing so often she began getting in a state. She got
it into her head that he was keen on another girl --- and of
cours% as it turned out af/erwar, she was quite right there.
She'd made up her mind to go to their Villa at Merlinville, and
try and see Jack. She knew I was against it and tried to give
me the slip. I found she was not on the train at Calais, and
determined I would not go on to England without her. I'd
an uneasy feeling that something awful was going to happen
if.I couldn't prevent it.
'I met the next train from Paris. She was on it, and set
upon going out then and there to Met 'Imville. I argued with
her for all I was wortlx, but it wasn't any good. She was all
strung up and set upon having her own way. Well I washed
my hands of it. I'd done all I could. It was getting hte. I
went to an hotel and Bella started for Merlinville. I still

193


couldn't shake off- my feeling of what the books call "impending
disaster".
'The next day came - but no Bella. She'd made a date
with me to meet at the hotel, but she didn't keep it. No sign
of her all day. I got more and more anxious. Then came an
evening paper with the news.
'It was awful! I couldn't be sure,.of course- but. I was
terribly afraid. I figured it out that Bella had met Papa
Renauld and told him about her and Jaclq and that he'd
insulted her or something like that. We've both got terribly
quick tempers.
'Then all the masked foreigner business came out, and I
began to feel more at ease. But it still worried me that Bella
hadn't kept her date with me.
'By the next morning I was so rattled that I'd just got to
go and see what I could. First thing, I ran up against you.
You know all that.... When I saw the dead man, looking
so like Jack, and wearing Jack's fancy overcoat, I knewl
And there was the identical'paper-knife- wicked little thingl - that Jack had given Bella! Ten to one it had her finger-marks
on it. I can't hope to explain to you the sort of helpless
horror of that moment. I only saw one thing clearly- I must get .hold of that dagger, and get right away with it
before they found out it was gone. I pretended to faint, and
while you were away getting water I took the thing and hid
it away in my dress.
'I told you that I was staying at the Hc3tel du Phare, but
of course really I made a. bee4ine back to Calais, and then on
to England by the first boat. When we were in mid-Channel
I dropped that little devil of a dagger into the sea. Then I
felt I could breathe again.
'Bella was in our digs in London. She looked like
 nothing on God's earth. I told her what I'd done, and that
she was pretty safe for the time being. She stared at me,
and then .began hughing ... hughing ... hughing ... it

194


was horrible to hear her! I felt that the best thing to do

was to keep busy. She'd go mad if she had time to brood

on what she'd done. Luckily we got an engagement at

once

'And then, I saw you and your friend watching us that

night ... I ms frantic.. You must suspect, or you wouldn't

have tracked us down. I had to know the worst, so I fol
lowed you. I was desperate. And then, before I'd had time

to say anything, I tumbled to it that it was me you suspected,

not Bella! Or at least that you thought I wa BelIa, sit, ce I'd

stolen the dagger.

'I wish, honey, that you could see back to my mind at
that moment ... you'd forgive me, perhaps 	I
was so
	frightened,
and muddled, and desperate. ... All I could get
	clearly
was that you would try and save me ' I didn't know
whether you'd be willing to save her
thought very
	likely
not- It wasn't the same thing! And I couldn't risk it!
	Bella's
my twln- I'd got to do the best for her. So I went on
	lying.
I felt mean- I feel mean stilL... That's all- enough
too,
you'll say, I expect. I ought to have trusted you 	If
I
had
--
'As soon
as'the news was in the paper that Jack Renauld had been
arrested, it was all up. Bella woulds't wen wait to
see how things went....
'I'm very tired. I can't write any more.'

She had begun to sign herself Cinderella, but had crossed
that out and written instead 'Duleie Duvee'
It was an ill-written, blurred epistle - but: I have kept it
to this day.
Poir0t was with me when I read it. The heets fell from
my hand, and I looked across at him.
'Did you know all the time that it was- the other'
'Yes, my friend.'
'Why did you not tell me?


'To begin with, I could hardly believe it conceivable that
you could make such a mistake. You had seen the photo-graph.
The sisters are very alike, but by no means incalable
of distinguishment.'

'But the fair hair?'

'A wig, worn for the sake of a piquant contrast on the
stage. Is it conceivable that with twins one should be fair.
and one dark?'

' Why didn't you tell me that night at the hotel in Coven-try?'

' You were rather high-handed in your methods, mon ami,'

said Poirot dryly. 'You did not give me a chance.'

'But afterwards?'

'Ah, afterwardsl Well, to begin with, I was hurt at your
want of faith in me. And then, I wanted to see whether your
- feelings would stand the test of time. In fact, whether it
was love, or a flash in the pan, with you. I should not have
left you long in your error.'

I nodded. His tone was too affectionate for me to bear re-sentment.
I looked down on the sheets of the letter. Sud-denly
I picked them up from the floor, and pushed them
across to him.

'Read that,' I said. 'I'd like you to.'

He read it through in silence, then he looked up at

me.

'What is it that worries you, Hastings ?'

This was quite a new mood in Poirot. His mocking manner
seemed laid quite aside. I was able to say what I wanted
without too much difficulty.

 She doesn't say - de doesn't say- wells not whether she
cares for me or not?'

Poirot turned back the pages.

'I think you are mistaken, Hastings.'
'Where?' I cried, leaning forward eagerly.
Poirot smiled.


' She tells you that in eVery line of the letter, mon ami.'

'But where am I to find her? There's no address on the
letter. There's a French stamp, that's alL'

'Excite yourself notl Leave it to Papa Poirot. I can find
her for you as soon as I have five little minutes?


CHAPTER '2/

JACK RENAULD'S STORY

'CoNcaXXaTXOS, Monsieur Jack,' said Poirot, wring-hag
the hd warmly by the hand.
Young Benauld had come to us as soon as he was liberated-
before starting for Merlinville to rejoin Marthe and
his mother. Stonor accompanied him. His heartiness was in
strong contrast to the lad's wan looks. It was plain that the
boy wai on the verge of a nervous breakdown. Hemiled
mournfully at Poirot, and said in a low voice:
'I went through it to protect her, and now it's all no use.'
'You could hardly expect the girl to accept the price of
your life,' remarked Stonor dryly.' She was bound to come
forward when she saw you heading straight for the guillotine.'
'Eh ma jail and you were heading for it too? added
Poirot, with a slight twinkle. 'You would have had Maitre
Grosier's death from rage on your conscience if you had
gone on.'
'He was a well meaning ass, I suppose,' said Jack. 'But
he worried me horribly. You see, I couldn't very well take
him into my confidence. But, my God! what's going to
happen about Bella?'
'In were you,' said Poirot frankly, 'I should not distress
myself unduly. The French Courts are very lenient to
youth and beauty, and the crime passlonnel/A clever lawyer
will make out a great case of extenuating circumstances. It
will not be pleasant for you --'
'I don't care about that. You see, Monsieur Poirot, in a
way I do feel guilty of my father's murder. But for me, and
my entanglement with this girl, he would be alive and well


today. And ihen my cursed my. lessness in taking away the wrong overcoat. I can't help ling responsible for his death.
It will haunt me for ever!'
'No, no; I said soothingly.
'Of course it's horrible t me to think that Bella killed
my father,' resumed Jack. 'lut I'd treated her shamefully.
After I met Marth and realk 'ed I'd made a mistak% I ought
to have written arid told her honestly. But I was so ten'i-fled
of a row and of its coning to Marflae's ear and her
thinking there was more in itthan there ever had been, that - well I was a covatrd, and v,nt on hoping the thing would
die down of itself. I just in fact- not realizing that
I was driving the poor kid dsperate. If she'd really knifed
me, as she meant t% I should have got no more than my
deserts. And the way she's cane forward now is downright
plucky. I'd have stood the racke you know-up to the

He was silent for a moment or twos and then burst out on

'What gets me is why the Gvemor should be wandering
about in underclothes and my overcoat at 'that time of night.
I suppose he'd just given the foreign i'Ohnnies the slip, and
my mother must have made a mistake about its being two
o'clock when they came, Or- or, it wasn't all a frame-up,
was it? I mean, my mother tiidn't think - couldn't -hi-,xk-that-
that it was ne?'
Poirot reassured him quicldy.
'No, no, Monsieur Jack. I-lave no fears on that score. As
for the rest, I will explain it to you one of these days. It is
rather curious. But will you recount to us exactly what did
occur on that terrible evening?'
'There's very little to tell I came from Cherbourg, as I
told you in order to see Marthe before going to the other
end of the world. The train was la and I decided to take
the short cut across the golf links. I could easily get into the


grounds of the Villa Marguerite from there. I had nearly
reached the place when--'
He paused and swallowed.

'I heard a terrible cry. It wasn't loud- a sort of choke and
gasp - but it frightened me. For a moment I stood rooted to
the spot. Then I came round the corner of a bush. There
was moonlight. I saw the grave, and a figure lying face
downwards with a dagger sticking in the back. And theaa and
then - I looked up and saw her. She was looking at
me as though she saw a ghost- it's what' she must have
thought me at first- all expression seemed frozen out of
her face by horror. And then she gave a cry and turned
and ran.'
He stopped, trying to master his emotion.
'And afterwards?' asked Poirot gently.
'I really don't know. I stayed there for a time, dazed. And
then I realized I'd better get away as fast as I could. It didn't
occur to me that they would suspect me, but I was afraid of
being called upon to give evidence against her. I walked to
St Beauvais as I told you and got a car from there hack to
Cherbourg.'
A knock came at the door, and a page entered with a tele..
gram which he delivered to Stonor. He tore it opem Then
he got up from his seat.
'Mrs Renauld has regained consciousness,' he said.
'Ah!' Poirot sprang to his feet. 'Let us all go to Merlinville
at once?
A hurried departure was made forthwith. Stonor, at
Jack's instance, agreed to stay behind and do all that could
be done for Bella Duveem Poirot, Jack Renauld, and I set
off in the Renauld car.
The run took just over forty minutes. As we approached
the doorway of the Villa Marguerite Jack Renauld shot a
questioning glance at Poirot.


'How would it be if you went on first- to break the rlev to my mother that I am free --'
'While you break it in person to Mademoiselle Marthe,
eh?' finished Poirot, with a twinkle. 'But yes, by all
means, I was about to propose such an arrangement
myself.'
Jack Benauld did not wait for more. Stopping the car, he
swung himself out, and ran up the path to the front door.
We went on in the car to the Villa Genevi&te.
'Poirot,' I said, 'do you remember how we arrived here
that first day? And were met by the news of Mr Benauld's
murder?'
'Ah, yes, truly. Not so long ago either. But what a lot of
things have happened since then - especially for you,

'Yes, indeed,' I sighed.
'You are regarding it from the sentimental standpoint,
Hastings. That was not my meaning. We will hope that
Mademoiselle Bella will be dealt with leniently, and after all
Jack Renauld cannot marry both the girls! I spoke from a
professional standpoint. This is not a crime well ordered and
regular, such as a detective delights in. The m/se an scne designed
by Georges Conneau, that indeed is perfect' but the d&oueraane- ah, no! A man killed by accident in a girl's fit
of anger - ah, indeed, what order or method is there in
that?'
And in the midst ora fit of laughter on my part at Poirot's
peculiarities, the door was opened by Franoise.
Poirot explained that he must see Mrs Benauld at once,
and the old woman conducted him upstairs. I remained in
the salon. It was some time before Poirot reappeax. He
was looking unusually grave.
'I2'ous roil&, Itastings! $acrd tonnerr! but there are
squalls ahead!'
'What do you ?' I cried.


'I would hardly have credited it,' said Poirot thoughtfully,
'but women are very unexpected.'
'Here are Jack and Marthe Daubreuil,' I exclaimed, looking
out of the window.
Poirot bounded out of the roon'z, and met the young
couple on the steps' outside.
'Do not enter. It is better not. Your mother is very upset.'
'I know, I know,' said Jack Renauld. 'I must go up to her
at once.'
'But no, I tell you. It is better not.'
'But Marthe and I M'
'In any case, do not take Mademoiselle with you.
Mount, if you must, but you would be wise to be guided by
ITleo'
A voice on the stairs be.hind made us all start.
'I thank you for your good offices, Monsieur Poirot but
I will make my own wishes clear.'
We stared in astonishment. Descending the stairs, leaning
on L{onie's arm, was Mrs Renau!d, herhead still bandaged.
The French girl was weeping, and imploring her mistress to
return to bed.
'Madame will kill herself. It is contrary to all the doctor's
orders!'
But Mrs Renautd came on.
'Mother,' cried Jack, starting forward.
But with a gesture she drove him back.
'I am no mother of yours! You are no son of minel
From this day and hour I renounce you.'
'Mother!' cried the hd, stupefied.
For a moment she seemed to waver, to falter before the
anguish in his voice. Poirot. made a mediating gesture. But
instantly she regained command of herself.
'Your father's blood is on your head. You are morally
guilty of his death. You thwarted and defied him over this

2.0:l


girl, and by your heartless treatment of mother girl, you
brought about his death. Go out from my house. Tomorrow
I intend to take such steps as shall make it certain that you
shall never'touch a penny of his money. Make your way in
the world as best you can with the help of the girl who is the
daughter of your father's bitterest enemy!'

And slowly painfully she retraced her way up-stairs.

We were all dumbfounded - totally unprepared for such
a demonstration. Jack Renauld, worn out with all he had
already gone through, swayed and nearly fell. Poirot and I
went quickly to his assistance.

'He is overdon%' murmured Poirot to Marthe. 'Where
can we take him?'

'But home! To the Villa Marguerite. Vre will nurse him
my mother and I. My poor Jack!'

We got the lad to the Villa where he dropped limply on
to a chair in a semi-dazed condition. Poirot felt his head and
hands.

'He has fever. The long strain begins to tell. And now
this shock on top of it. Get him to bed and Hastings and I
will summon a doctor.'

A doctor was soon procured. After examining the patient,
he gave it as his opinion that it was simply a case of nerve
strain. Vrith perfect rest and quiet* the lad might be almost
restored by the next day, but, if excited, there was a chance
of brain fever. It would be advisable for -someone to sit up
all night with him.

Finally, having done all we could we left him in the
charge of Marthe and her mother, and set out for the town.
It was past our usual hour of dining, and we were both fam-ished.
The first restaurant we came to assuaged the pangs of
hunger with an excellent omeletteand an equally excellent
entrec$te to follow.

'And now for quarters for the night.' said Poirot. when


at length carl noir had completed the meal.' Shall we try our
old friend, the Hotel des Bains?'
We traced our steps there without more ado. Yes, Messieurs
could be accommodated with two good rooms overlooking
the sea. Then Poirot asked a question which surprised'me:
'Has an English lady, Miss Bobinson, arrived?'
'Yes, monsieur. She is in the little salon.'
'Ah!'
'Poirot,' I cried, keeping pace with him, as he walked
along the co.rridor, 'who on earth is bliss Bobinson?'
Poirot beamed kindly on me.
'It is that I have arranged you a marriage, Hastings.'
'But I say --'
'Bah!' said Poirot, giving me a friendly push over the
tlreshold of the door. 'Do you think I wish to trumpet
aloud in Merlinville the name of Duveen?'
It was indeed Cinderella who rose to greet us. I took her
hand in both of mine. My eyes said the rest.
Poirot cleared his throat.
'Mes enfants,' he said, 'for the moment we have no time
for sentiment. There is work ahead of us. lvlademoiselle,
were you able to do what I asked you ?'
In response, Cinderella took from her bag an object
wrapped up in paper, and handed it silently to Poirot. The
latter unwrapped it. I gave a start - for it was the aeroplane
dagger which I understood shehad cast into the sea. Strange,
how reluctant women always are to destroy the most compromising
of objects and documents!
'Trs bien, mon enfant,' said Poirot. 'I am pleased with
you. Go now and rest yourself. Hastings here and I have
work to do. You shall see him tomorrow.'
' WI,ere are you going?' asked the girl, her eyes vAdenlng.
'You shall hear all about it tomorrow.'
'Because wherever you're going, I'm coming too.'


' But, mademoiselle --'

'I'm coming too, I tell you.'

Poirot realized that it was futile to argue. He gave in.

'Come then, mademoiselle. But it will not be amusing.

In all probability nothing will happen.'

The girl made no reply.

Twenty minutes later we set forth. It was quite dark now,
a close oppressive evening. Poirot led the way out of the
town in the direction of the Villa Genevieve. But when he
reached the Villa Marguerite he paused.

' I should like to assure myself that all goes well with Jack
Renauld. Come with me, Hastings. Mademoiselle will per-haps
remain outside. Madame Daubreuil might say some-thing
which would wound her.'

We unlatched the gate, and walked up the path. As we
went round to the side of the house, I drew Poirot's atten-tion
to a window on the first floor. Thrown sharply on the
blind was the profile of'Marthe Daubreuil.

'Ah!' said Poirot. 'I figxu-e to myself that that is the room
where we shall find Jack Renauld.'

Madame Daubreuil opened the door to us. She explained
that Jack was much the same but perhaps we would like to
see for ourselves. She led us upstairs and into the bedroom.
Marthe Daubreuil was sitting by a table with a lamp on it,
working. She put her finger to her lips as we entered.

Jack Renauld was sleeping an uneasy, fitful sleep, his
head turning from side to side and his face still unduly
flushed.

'Is the doctor coming again?' asked Poirot in a whisper.

'Not unless we send. He is sleeping- that is the great
thing. Maman made him a tisane.'

She sat down again with her embroidery as we left the
room. Madame Daubmil accompanied us down the stairs.
Since I had learned of her past history, I viewed this woman
with increased interest. She stood there with her eyes cast


down, the same very ihint enigmatical smile that I remembered
on her lips. And suddenly I felt afraid of her, as one
might feel afraid of a beautiful poisonous snake.
'I hope we have not deranged you, madame,' said Poirot
politely, as she opened the door for us to pass out.
'Not at all, monsieur.'
'By the way,' said Poirot, as though stnck by an afterthought,
'Monsieur Stonor has not been in Merlinville
today, has he?'
I could not at all fathom the point of this question,
which I well knew to be meaningless as far as Poirot was
concerned.
Madame Daubreuil replied quite composedly:
'Not that I know of.'
' He has not had an interview with Madame Renauld ?'
'How should I know that, monsieur?'
'True,' said Poirot. 'I thought you might have seen him
coming or going, that is all. Goodnight, madame.'
'Why m' I began.
'No whys, Hastings. There will be time for that later.'
We rejoined Cinderella and made our way rapidly in the
direction of the Villa Genevieve. Poirot looked over his
shoulder once at the lighted window and the profile of
Marthe as she bent over her work.
'He is being guarded at all events,' he muttered.
Arrived at the Villa Genevieve, Poirot took up his stand
behind some bushes to the left of the drive, where, while
enjoying a good view ourselves, we were completely hidden
from sight. The Villa itself was in total darkness, everybody
was without doubt in bed and asleep. We were almost immediately
under the window of Mrs Benauld's bedroom,
which window, I noticed, was open. It seemed to me that it
was upon tiffs spot that Poirot's eyes were fixed.
' What are we going to do ?' I whispered.
'Watch.'


'But --'
'I do not expect anything to happen for at least an hour,
probably two hours, but the --'
His words were interrupted by a long, thin drawn cry:
'Help!'
A light flashed up in the first-floor room on the right-hand
side of the front door. The cry came from there. And even
as we watched there came a shadow on the blind as of two
people struggling.
'Mille tonnerres,t' cried Poirot. 'She must have changed
her room.'
Dashing forward, he. battered wildly on the front door.
Then rushing to the n-ee in the flower-bed, he swarmed up
it with the agility of a cat. I followed him, as with a bound
he sprang in through the open window. Looking over my
shoulder, I saw Dulcie reaching the branch behind me.
'Take care,' I exclaimed.
'Take care of your grandmother!' retorted the girl. 'This
i6 child's play to me.'
Poirot had rushed through the empty room and was
pounding on the door.
'Locked and bolted on the outside,' he growled. 'And it
will take time to burst it opera'
The cries for help were getting noticeably fainter. I saw
despair in Poirot's eyes. He and I together put our shoulders
to the door.
Cinderella's voice, calm and dispassionate, came from the
window:
'You'll be too late. I guess I'm the only one who can do
anything.'
Before I could move a hand to stole her, she appeared to
leap from the window into space. I rushed and looked out.
To my horror, I saw her hanging by her hands from the
roof, propelling herself along by jerks in the direction of the
lighted window.


'Good heavens{. She'll be -killed,' I cried.

'You forget. She's a professional acrobat, Hastings. It
was the providence of the good God that made her insist on
coming with us to,fight. I only pray that she may be in
time. All!'

A cry of absolute terror floated out on to the night, as the
girl disappeared through die windo% and then in Cinder-ella's
clear tones came the words:

'No, you don't! I've got you - zmd nay wrists are just like
steel.'

At the same moment the door of our prison was opened
cautiously by Frangoise. Poirot brushed her aside uncere-moniously
and rushed down the passage to where the other

maids were grouped round the farther door.

'It's locked on the inside, monsieur.'

There was the sound of a heavy fall within. After a mo-ment
or two the key turned and the door swung slowly

open. Cinderella, very pale, beckoned us in.

'She is safe? demanded Poirot.

'Yes, I was just in time. She was exhausted.'

hs Renhuld was half sitting, half lying on the bed. She
was gasping for breath.

'Nearly strangled me,' she murmured painfully.

The girl picked up something from the floor and handed
it to Poirot. It was a rolled-up ladder of silk rope, very fine
'but quite strong.

'A getaway,' said Poirot. ' By the window, while we were
battering at.the door. Where is- the other?'

The girl stood aside a little and pointed. On the ground
lay a'figure wrapped in some dark material, a fold of which

hid the face.
'Dead?'
She nodded.

'I think so. Head must have struck the marble fender.'
'But who is it?' I cried.


208


'The murderer of' Renauld, Hastings. And the would-be
murderer of Madame Renauld.'

Puzzled and uncomprehending, I knelt down, and lifting
the fold of clofl, looked into the dead beautiful face of
Marthe Daubreuil!


209


CHAPTER 8

JOURNEY'S END

I .^',m confused memories of the further events of that
night. Poirot seemed deaf to my repeated questions. He was
engaged in overwhelming Franc. oise with reproaches for not
having told him of Mrs Renauld's change of sleeping
quarters.
I caught him by the shoulder, determined to attract his
attention, and make myself heard.
'But you must have known,' I expostulated. 'You were
taken up to see her this afternoon.'
Poirot deigned to attend to me for a brief moment.
'She had been wheeled on a sofa into the middle room-her
boudoir,' he explained.
'But, monsieur,' cried Franoise, 'Madame changed her
room almost immediately after the crime: The associations they
were too distressing!'
'Then why was I not told?' vociferated Poirot, striking
the table, and wot'king himself into a first-class passion. 'I
demand of you- why-was - I- not- told? You are an old
woman completely imbecile! And Lonie and Denise are no
better. All of you are triple idiots! Your stupidity has nearly
caused the death of your mistress. But for this courageous
child --'
He broke off, and, darting across the room to where the
girl was bending over ministering to Mrs Renau!d, he
braced her with Gallic fervour- slightly to my annoyance.
I was aroused from my condition of mental fog by a
sharp command from Poirot to fetch the doctor immediately
on Mrs Renauld's behalf. After that, I might summon the-police.
And he added to complete my dudgeon:


'It will hardly be worth your while to return here. I shall
be too busy to attend to you, and of Mademoiselle here I
make a gardemalade.'
I retired with what dignity I could command; Having
done my errands, I returned to the hotel. I under'stood next
to nothing of what had occurred. The events of the night
seemed fantastic and impossible. Nobody would answer my
questions. Nobody had seemed to hear them. Angrily, I
flung myself into bed, and slept the sleep of the bewildered
and utterly exhausted.
I awoke to find the sun pouring in through the open windows
and Poirot, ne.t and smiling, sitting beside the bed.
'E,'fin, you wake! But it is that you are a famous sleeper,
Hastings! Do you know that it is nearly eleven o'clock?'
I groaned arid pu a hand to my head.
'I must have been dreaming,' I said. 'Do you know, I
actually dreamt that we found Marthe Daubreuil's body in
Mrs Renauld's room, and that you declared her to have
murdered Mr Renauld ?'
'You were not dreaming. All that {s quite true.'
'But Bella Duveen killed Mr Renauld?'

	Oh no, Hastings, she did not! She said she did- yes - but
that was to save the man she loved from the guillotine.'
'Fhat?'
t Remember Jack Renauld's story. They both arrived on
the scene on the same instant and each took the other to be
the perpetrator of the crime. The girl stares at him in horror,
and then wi a cry rushes away. Bug when she hears that
the crime has been brought home to him, she cannot bear
i and comes forward to accuse herself and save him from
certain death.'
Poirot leaned back in his chair, and brought the tips of
his fingers together in familiar style.
'The case was riot quite satisfactory to me,' he observggt
judicially. 'All along I was strongly under the impression


that we were dealing with a cold-blooded and premeditated
crime committed by someone wh쯪ad contented them-selves
(very cleverly) with using Monsieur Renauld's own
plans for throwing the police off the track. The great crimi-nal
(as you may remember my remarking to you once) is

always supremely simple.'

I nodded.

'Now, to support this theory, the criminal must have
been fully cognizant of Monsieur Renauld's plans. That
leads us to Mrs Renauld. But facts fail to support any theory
of her guilt. Is there anyone else who might have known of
them? Yes. From Marthe Daubreuil's own lips we have
the admission that she overheard Mr Renauld's quarrel with
the tramp. If she could overhear that, there is no reason
why she should not have heard everything else, especially if
Mr and Madame Renauld were imprudent enough to discuss
their plans sitting on the bench. Remember how easily you
overheard Marthe's conversation with Jack Renauld from
that spot.'

'But what possible motive could Marthe have for mur-dering
Mr Renauld?' I argued.

'What motive! Money! Renauld was a millionaire several
times over, and at his death (or so she and Jack believed)
half that vast fortune would pass to his son. Let us recon-struct
the scene from the standpoint of Marthe Daubreuil.

'Marthe Daubreuil overhears what passes between Ren-auld
and his wife. So far he has been a nice little source of
income to the Daubreuil mother and daughter, but now he
proposes to escape from their toils. At first, possibly, her
idea is to prevent that escape. But a bolder idea takes its
place, and one that fails to horrify the daughter of Jeanne
Beroldy! At present Renauld stands inexorably in the way
of her marriage with Jack. If the latter defies his father, he
will be a pauper- which is not at all to the mind of Made-moiselle
Marthe. In fact, I doubt il'she has ever eared a straw


212


for Jack Renauld. She can simulate emotion but in reality
she is of the same cold, calcula6ng type as her mother. I
doubt, too, whether she was really very sure of her hold over
the boY's affections. She had dazzled and captivated him,
but separated from her, as his father could so asily manage
to separate bJm, she might lose him. But with Benauld dead,
and Jack the heir to half his millions, the marriage can take
place at once, and at a stroke she will attain wealth- not the
beggarly thousands that have been extracted from him so far.
And her clever brain takes in the simplicity of the thing. It
is all so easy. Benauld is planning all the circumstances of
his death - she has only to step in at the right moment and
turn the farce into a grim reality. And here comes in the
second point which led me infallibly to Marthe Daubreuil-the
dagger: Jack Renauld had three souvenirs made. One he
gave to his mother, one to Bella Duveen- was it not highly
probable that he had given the thixd one to Marthe
Daubreuil?

'So, then to sum up, there' were four points of note
against Marthe'Daubreuil:

0) Mare Daubreuil could have overheard Renauld's
plans.

(2) Marthe Daubreuil had a direct interest in causing
Renauld's death.

(3) Marthe Daubreuil was the daughter of thenotorious
Madame Beroldy who in my opinion was morally and
virtually the murderess of her husband, although it may
have beer Georges Conneau's hand which struck the
actual blow.

(4) Marthe Daubreuil was the only person, besides Jack
Renauld, likely to have the third dagger in her posses-sion?


Poirot paused and cleared his throat.

'Of course, when I learned of the existence of the other


girl, Bella Duveen, I realized that it was quite possible that
the might have killed Renauld. The solution did not commend
itself to me, because, as I pointed out to you, Hastings,
an expert, such as I am, likes to meet a foeman worthy of
his steel. Still, one must take crimes as one finds them, not
as one would like them to be. It did not seem very likely
that Bella Duveen would be wandering about carrying a
souvenir paper-knife in her hand, but of course she might
have had some idea all the time of revenging herself on Jack
Benauld. When she actually came forward and confessed to
the murder, it seemed that all was over. And yet- I was not
satisfied, mon arnL I was not satisfied....
'I went over the case again minutely, and I came to the
same conclusion as before. If i was not Bella Duveen, the
only other person who could have committed the crime was
Marthe Daubreuil. But I had not one single proof against
her!
'And then you showed me that letter from Mademoiselle
Dulcie, and I saw a chance of settling the matter once for
all. The original dagger was stolen by Dulcie Duveen and
thrown into the sea - since, as she thought, it belonged to
her sister. But if, by any chance, it was not her sister's, but
the one given by Jack to Marthe Daubreuil - why then,
Bella Duveen's dagger would be still intact! I said no word
to you, Hastings (it was no time for romance), but I sought
out Mademoiselle Dulcie, told her as much as I deemed needful,
and set her to search among the effects of her sister.
Imagine my elation, when she sought me out (according to
my instructions) as Miss Bobinson with the precious souvenir
in her possession!
'In the meantime I had taken steps to force Mademoiselle
Marthe into the open. By my orders, Madame Renauld repulsed
her son, and declared her intention of making a will
on the morrow which should cut him off from ever enjoying
even a portion of his father's fortune. It was a desperate step,


but a necessary one, and ,Madame Renauld was fully prepared
to take the risk- though unfortunately she also never
thought of mentioning her change of room, I suppose she
took it for granted that I knew. All happened as I thought.
Mart. he Daubreuil made a last bold bid for the Benauld
millions - and failed!'
'What absolutely bewilders me,' I said, 'is how she ever
got into the house without our seeing her. It seems an absolute
miracle. We left her behind at the Villa b,Lqrguerite,
we go straight to the Villa. Genevieve - and yet she is there
before usl'
'Ah, but we did not leave her behind. She was out of the
Villa Marguerite by the back way while we were talking to
her mother in the hall. That is where, as the Americans say,
she "put it over" on Hercule Poirotl'
'But the shadow on the blind? We saw it from the road.'
'Eh b/e.n, when we looked up, Madame Daubreuil had
just had time to run ups.tairs and take her place.'
' Madame Daubreuil ?'
'Yes. One is old, and one is young, one dark, and one
fair, but, for the purpose of a silhouette on a blind, their
profiles are singularly alike. Even I did not suspect- triple
imbecile that I was! I thought I had plenty of time before
me - that she would not try to gain admission to the Villa
until much later. She had brains, that beautiful Mademoiselle

'And her object was to murder Mrs Benauld?'
'Yes. The whole fortune would then pass to her son. But
it would have been suicide, man amd/On the floor by Marthe
Daubreuil's body, I found a pad and a little bottle of chloroform
and a hypodermic syringe containing a fatal dose of
morphine. You understand? The chloroform first- then
when the victim is unconscious the prick of the needle. By
the morning the smell of the chloroform has quite disappeared
and the syringe lies where it has fallen from


Madame Renauld's hand. What would he say, the excellent
Monsieur Hautet? "Poor woman! What did I tell yot?
The shock of joy, it was too much on top of the rest! Did I
not say that I should not be surprised if her brain became unhinged.
Altogether a most tragic case, the Benauld Case! ':
'However, Hastings, things did not go quite as Mademoiselle
Marthe had planned. To begin with, Madame Benauld
was awake and waiting for her. There is a struggle. But
Madame Renauld is terribly weak still. There is a last chance
for Marthe Daubreuil. The idea of suicide is at an end, but if
she can silence Madame Renauld with her strong hands,
make a getaway with her little silk ladder while we are still
battering on the inside of the farther door, and be back at
the Villa Marguerite before we return there, it will be hard
to prove anything against her. But she was checkmated, not
by Hercule Poirot, but by lapetite acrobate with her wrists of
steel.'
I mused over the whole story.
'When did you first begin to suspect Marthe Daubreuil,
Poirot? When she told us she had overheard the quarrel
in the garden ?'
Poirot smiled.
'My friend, do you remember when we drove into Merlin-rifle
that first day? And the beautiful girl we saw standing
at the gate? You asked me if I had not noticed a young goddess,
and I replied to you that I had seen only a girl with
anxious eyes. That is how I have thought of Marthe Daubreuil
from the beginning. The girl with the anxious eyes I Why was she anxious? Not on Jack Renauld's behalf, for
she did not know then that he had been in Merlinville the
previous evening.'
'By the way,' I exclaimed, 'how is Jack Renauld?'
'Much better. He is still at the Villa Marguerite. But
Madame Daubreuil has disappeared. The police are looking
for her.'


'Was she in with her daughter, do you think?'

'We shall never know. Madame is a lady who can keep
her secrets. And I doubt very much if the police will ever
find her.'

'Has Jack Renauld been- told?'

' Not yet.'

'It will be a terrible shock to him.'

'Naturally. And yet, do you know, Hastings, I doubt if
his heart was ever seriously engaged ? So far we have looked
upon Bella Duven as a siren, and Marthe Daubreuil as the
girl he really loved. But I think that if we reversed the terms
we should come nearer to the truth. Marthe Daubreuil was
very beautiful. She set herself to fasdnate Jack, and she sue-ceeded,
but remember his curious reluctance to break with
the other girl. And see how he was willing to go to the
guillotine rather than implicate her. I have a little idea that
when he learns the truth, he will be horrified- revolted, and

his false love will wither away.'

' What about Giraud ?'

 tie has a cr/se of the nerves, that one! tie has been obliged
to return to Paris.'

We both smiled.

Poirot proved a fairly true prophet. When at length the
doctor pronounced Jack Renauld strong enough to hear the
xruth, it was Poirot who broke it to him. The shock was in-deed
terrific. Yet Jack rallied better than I could have sup-posed
possible. His mother's devotion helped him to live
through those difficult days. The mother and son were in-separable
now.

There was a further revelation to come. Poirot had ac-quainted
Mrs Benauld with the fact that he knew her secret,
and had represented to her that Jack should not be left in
ignorance of his father's past.

'To hide the truth, never does it avail, madamel Be brave
and tell him everything.'


With a heavy heart Mrs Renauld consented, and her son

learned that the father he had loved had been in actual fact

a fugitive from justice. A halting question was promptly

answered by Poirot.

'Reassure yourself, Monsieur Jack. The world knows

nothing. As far as I can see, there is no obligation for me to

take the police into my confidence. Throughout the case I

have acted, not for them, but for your father. Justice over
took him at last, but no one need ever know that he and

Georges Conneau were one and the same.'

There were, of course, various points in the case that re
mained puzzling to the police, but Poirot explained things in

so plausible a fashion that all query about them was gradu
ally stilled.

Shortly after we got back to London, I noticed a magni
ficent model of a foxhound adorning Poirot's mantelpiece.

In answer to my inquiring glance, Poirot nodded.

'Mais ou/.t I got my five hundred francsl Is he not a

splendid fellow? I call him Giraud!'

A few days later Jack Renauld came to see us with a reso
lute expression on his face.

'Monsieur Poirot, I've come to say goodbye. I'm sailing

for South America almost immediately. My father had large

interests over the continent, and I mean to start a new life out

there.'

'You go alone, Monsieur Jack?'

'My mother comes with me - and I shall keep Stonor on

as my secretary. He likes out-of-the-way parts of the

world.'

'No one else goes with you?'

Jack flushed.

You mean ?'

'A girl who loves you very dearly- who has been willing
to lay down her life for you.'
	';'
'How could I ask her?' muttered the boy. 'After all that


has happened, could I' go to her and -- Oh, what sox. of a
lame story could I tell?'
'Les fimmas- they have a wonderful genius for manufacturing
crutches for stories like that.'
'Yes, but - I've been such a damned fool.'
'So have all of us, one time and another,' observed Poirot
philosophically.
But Jack's face had hardened.
 There's something else. I'm my father's son. Would anyone
marry me, knowing that?'
'You are your father's son, you say. Hastings here will
tell you that I believe in heredity --'
' Well, then --'
'Wait. I know a woman, a woman of courage and endurance,
capable of great love, of supreme self-sacrifice --'
The boy looked up. His eyes softened.
' My mother!'
'Yes. You are your mother's son as well as your father's.
Then go to Mademoiselle Bella. Tell her everydfing. Keep
nothing back- and see what she will say!'
Jack looked irresolute.
' Go to her as a boy no longer, but a man - a man bowed
by the fate of the Past, and the fate of Today, but looking
forward to a new and wonderful life. Ask her to share it with
you. You may not realize it, but your love for each other has
been tested in the fire and not found wanting. You have both
been willing to lay down your lives for each other.'

And what Of Captain Arthur Hastings, humble chronicler
of these p,ges?
There is some ,lk of his joining the Renaulds on a ranch
across the seas, but for the end of this story I prefer to go
back to a morning in the garden of the Villa Genevieve.
'I can't call you Bella,' I said, 'since it isn't your name.
And Dulcie seems so unfamiliar. So it's got to be Cinderella.


Cinderella married the Prince, you remember. I'm not a
Prince, but--'

She interrupted me.

'Cinderella warned him I'm sure. You see, she couldn'.t
promise to turn into a princess. She was only a little scullion
after all --'

'It's' the Prince's turn to interrupt,' I interpolated. 'Do

you know what he said ?'

'No?'

'" Hell!" said the Prince- and kissed her?

And I suited the action to the word.


