Twilight Series 
By: Stephenie Meyer
(PDF)

[img]http://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/en/f/f8/Twilight_Saga_Collection.jpg[/img]

Twilight

Bella Swan moves from Phoenix, Arizona to Forks, Washington to 
allow her mother, Renée, to travel with her new husband, Phil, a 
baseball player. After moving to Forks, Bella finds herself 
involuntarily drawn to a mysterious, handsome boy, Edward Cullen, 
who turns out to be a vampire who drinks animal blood as opposed 
to human blood. They fall passionately in love, and must fight off 
a clan of three vampires who are drawn to drink Bella's blood. Bella 
escapes to Phoenix, Arizona where she is tricked into confronting 
James, a sadistic vampire who wishes to kill her. Edward rescues 
her, and they return to Forks.

New Moon

Edward and his family leave Forks because of his belief that 
he is constantly endangering Bella's life. Bella falls into a 
deep depression, until she develops a strong friendship with 
werewolf Jacob Black. Jacob and the other wolves in his tribe 
must protect her from Victoria, an evil vampire who intends to 
avenge the death of James, her mate, by killing Bella. 
A misunderstanding occurs, and Edward is led to believe that Bella 
is dead. Edward decides to commit suicide in Volterra, Italy, but 
he is stopped by Bella and Alice. They meet with the Volturi and 
are let go on the condition that Bella be turned into a vampire 
in the near future. Bella and Edward are reunited, and the Cullens 
return to Forks.

Eclipse

The vampire Victoria has amassed an army of "newborn" vampires 
to battle the Cullen family and kill Bella. Meanwhile, Bella is 
forced to choose between her relationship with Edward and her 
friendship with Jacob. Edward's family of vampires and Jacob's 
pack of werewolves join forces to successfully destroy Victoria 
and her army of vampires. In the end, Bella chooses Edward's love 
over Jacob's. Jacob is devastated to hear of Bella's choice and of 
her decision to become a vampire.

Breaking Dawn

Bella and Edward get married, but their honeymoon is cut short 
by Bella's realization that she has become pregnant. Bella's 
pregnancy progresses at an extremely fast rate and makes her very 
weak. She nearly dies while giving birth to her and Edward's 
half-vampire-half-human daughter, Renesmee, but Edward injects 
Bella with his venom to save her life by turning her into a vampire. 
A vampire from another coven sees Renesmee and mistakes her for 
an "immortal child", the existence of which violates vampire rules, 
and informs the Volturi. The Cullens gather vampire witnesses who 
can verify that the child is not one of the immortal children. The 
Cullens and their witnesses convince the Volturi that Renesmee is 
not a danger to vampires or their secret, and they are left in peace.

Main characters

Bella Swan - The protagonist of the series, Bella is a perpetually
clumsy "danger magnet". She is often portrayed as having low 
self-esteem and not being able to grasp Edward's love for her. 
Bella has dark brown hair and chocolate brown eyes. An important 
trait of hers is her immunity to supernatural abilities that involve 
the mind, such as Edward's mind reading. After her transformation 
into a vampire in the saga's fourth installment, Bella acquires the 
ability to immunize both herself and others from "mental harm" caused 
by opposing vampires' abilities.

Edward Cullen — Edward is a vampire who lives with a coven of 
like-minded vampires known as the Cullen family, who feeds on animals 
instead of humans. Edward has very pale skin. His skin is also rock 
hard. His eyes range from caramel brown to black. At first, Edward 
feels a mutual hatred toward Jacob Black due to his love toward Bella. 
In Breaking Dawn, he comes to see Jacob as a brother and a friend. 
Like some vampires, Edward has a supernatural ability; his gift is 
mind reading, allowing him to read the thoughts of anyone within a 
few miles of himself. Bella is immune to his power as a human, but 
learns how to lower this "shield" after she becomes a vampire.

Jacob Black — A minor character in the first novel, Jacob is 
introduced as a member of the Quileute tribe. He resurfaces in New 
Moon with a much larger role, becoming a werewolf and Bella's best 
friend as she struggles through her depression over losing Edward. 
Although he is in love with Bella, she initially sees him as just her 
best friend. In Eclipse Bella realizes that she loves Jacob as well, 
though this love is overpowered by her love for Edward Cullen. In 
Breaking Dawn, Jacob finds his soul-mate in Bella and Edward's 
daughter Renesmee, thus ridding him of his heartache for Bella.

Setting

The story is set primarily in the town of Forks, Washington, 
where Bella Swan and her father, Charlie Swan, live. Other cities 
in Washington briefly appear in the series or are mentioned, such 
as Port Angeles, Olympia, Seattle and La Push. Some events in 
Twilight take place in Phoenix, Arizona, where Bella was raised. 
Volterra, Italy is featured in New Moon, when Edward travels there 
to commit suicide and Bella rushes to save him. Jacksonville, Florida 
is mentioned in Eclipse when Edward and Bella visit her mother, 
who has moved there with her husband. Seattle, Washington is featured 
in Breaking Dawn when Jacob tries to escape his love for Bella, and 
when Bella tries to locate a man named J. Jenks. A fictional 
"Isle Esme" is mentioned in Breaking Dawn, where Bella and Edward 
spend their honeymoon.